# Number Operation
```Number``` is a [[3. Variables#Data type|Data types]] in [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] which represents numeric data. 

## Add
[[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] uses the `+` symbol as an addition operator when placed between two numbers.

```js
const myVar = 5 + 10;
```
`myVar` now has the value `15`.

---
## Subtract
[[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] uses the `-` symbol for subtraction.

```js
const myVar = 10 - 5;
```
`myVar` would have the value `5`.

---
# Multiply
[[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] uses the `*` symbol for multiplication of two numbers.

```js
const myVar = 13 * 13;
```
`myVar` would have the value `169`.

---
# Divide
[[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] uses the `/` symbol for division.

```js
const myVar = 16 / 2;
```

`myVar` now has the value `8`.

---
# Division
The remainder operator `%` gives the remainder of the division of two numbers.

**Example**

> 5 % 2 = 1 because  
> Math.floor(5 / 2) = 2 (Quotient)  
> 2 * 2 = 4  
> 5 - 4 = 1 (Remainder)

**Usage**  
In mathematics, a number can be checked to be even or odd by checking the remainder of the division of the number by `2`.

> 17 % 2 = 1 (17 is Odd)  
> 48 % 2 = 0 (48 is Even)

**Note:** The remainder operator is sometimes incorrectly referred to as the modulus operator. It is very similar to modulus, but does not work properly with negative numbers.


---
# Increment a Number
We can easily increment or add one to a variable with the `++` operator.

```js
i++;
```

is the equivalent of

```js
i = i + 1;
```
**Note:** The entire line becomes `i++;`, [[eliminating]] the need for the equal sign.

---
# Decrement a Number
You can easily decrement or decrease a variable by one with the `--` operator.

```js
i--;
```

is the equivalent of

```js
i = i - 1;
```
**Note:** The entire line becomes `i--;`, [[eliminating]] the need for the equal sign.

---
# Compound Assignment
One such operator is the `+=` operator.

```js
let myVar = 1;
myVar += 5;
```

`-=` subtracts a number from a variable.

```js
myVar -= 5;
```

The `*=` operator multiplies a variable by a number.

```js
myVar *= 5;
```

The `/=` operator divides a variable by another number.

```js
myVar /= 5;
```

