# Catch Misspelled Variable and Function Names
The `console.log()` and `typeof` methods are the two primary ways to check intermediate values and types of program output. Now it's time to get into the common forms that bugs take. One syntax-level issue that fast typers can commiserate with is the humble spelling error.

Transposed, missing, or mis-capitalized characters in a variable or function name will have the browser looking for an object that doesn't exist - and complain in the form of a reference error. [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] variable and function names are case-sensitive.

---

# Catch Unclosed [[Parentheses]], Brackets, Braces and Quotes

Another syntax error to be aware of is that all opening [[parentheses]], brackets, curly braces, and quotes have a closing pair. Forgetting a piece tends to happen when you're editing existing code and inserting items with one of the pair types. Also, take care when nesting code blocks into others, such as adding a callback function as an argument to a method.

One way to avoid this mistake is as soon as the opening character is typed, immediately include the closing match, then move the cursor back between them and continue coding. Fortunately, most modern code editors generate the second half of the pair automatically.

---

# Catch Mixed Usage of Single and Double Quotes

[[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] allows the use of both single (`'`) and double (`"`) quotes to declare a [[5. String|string]]. Deciding which one to use generally comes down to personal preference, with some exceptions.

Having two choices is great when a [[5. String|string]] has contractions or another piece of text that's in quotes. Just be careful that you don't close the [[5. String|string]] too early, which causes a syntax error.

Here are some examples of mixing quotes:

```js
const grouchoContraction = "I've had a perfectly wonderful evening, but this wasn't it.";
const quoteInString = "Groucho Marx once said 'Quote me as saying I was mis-quoted.'";
const uhOhGroucho = 'I've had a perfectly wonderful evening, but this wasn't it.';
```

The first two are correct, but the third is incorrect.

Of course, it is okay to use only one style of quotes. You can escape the quotes inside the [[5. String|string]] by using the backslash (`\`) escape character:

```js
const allSameQuotes = 'I\'ve had a perfectly wonderful evening, but this wasn\'t it.';
```

---

# **Catch Use of Assignment Operator Instead of Equality Operator**

Branching programs, i.e. ones that do different things if certain conditions are met, rely on `if`, `else if`, and `else` statements in [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]]. The condition sometimes takes the form of testing whether a result is equal to a value.

This logic is spoken (in English, at least) as "if x equals y, then ..." which can literally translate into code using the `=`, or assignment operator. This leads to unexpected control flow in your program.

As covered in previous challenges, the assignment operator (`=`) in JavaScript assigns a value to a variable name. And the `==` and `===` operators check for equality (the triple `===` tests for strict equality, meaning both value and type are the same).

The code below assigns `x` to be 2, which evaluates as `true`. Almost every value on its own in [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] evaluates to `true`, except what are known as the "falsy" values: `false`, `0`, `""` (an empty string), `NaN`, `undefined`, and `null`.

```js
let x = 1;
let y = 2;
if (x = y) {

} else {

}
```

In this example, the code block within the `if` statement will run for any value of `y`, unless `y` is falsy. The `else` block, which we expect to run here, will not actually run.

---

# Catch Missing Open and Closing Parenthesis After a Function Call

When a function or method doesn't take any arguments, you may forget to include the (empty) opening and closing [[parentheses]] when calling it. Often times the result of a function call is saved in a variable for other use in your code. This error can be detected by logging variable values (or their types) to the [[1. console|console]] and seeing that one is set to a function reference, instead of the expected value the function returns.

The variables in the following example are different:

```js
function myFunction() {
  return "You rock!";
}
let varOne = myFunction;
let varTwo = myFunction();
```

Here `varOne` is the function `myFunction`, and `varTwo` is the [[5. String|string]] `You rock!`.

---

# Catch Arguments Passed in the Wrong Order When Calling a Function

Continuing the discussion on calling [[7. Function|functions]], the next bug to watch out for is when a function's arguments are supplied in the incorrect order. If the arguments are different types, such as a function expecting an array and an integer, this will likely throw a runtime error. If the arguments are the same type (all integers, for example), then the logic of the code won't make sense. Make sure to supply all required arguments, in the proper order to avoid these issues.

---

# Catch Off By One Errors When Using Indexing

Off by one errors (sometimes called OBOE) crop up when you're trying to target a specific index of a [[5. String|string]] or array (to slice or access a segment), or when looping over the indices of them. [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] indexing starts at zero, not one, which means the last index is always one less than the length of the item. If you try to access an index equal to the length, the program may throw an "index out of range" reference error or print `undefined`.

When you use [[5. String|string]] or array methods that take index ranges as arguments, it helps to read the documentation and understand if they are inclusive (the item at the given index is part of what's returned) or not. Here are some examples of off by one errors:

```js
let alphabet = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz";
let len = alphabet.length;
for (let i = 0; i <= len; i++) {
  console.log(alphabet[i]);
}
for (let j = 1; j < len; j++) {
  console.log(alphabet[j]);
}
for (let k = 0; k < len; k++) {
  console.log(alphabet[k]);
}
```

The first example here loops one too many times, and the second loops one too few times (missing the first index, 0). The third example is correct.

---

# Use Caution When Reinitializing Variables Inside a Loop

Sometimes it's necessary to save information, increment counters, or re-set variables within a loop. A potential issue is when variables either should be reinitialized, and aren't, or vice versa. This is particularly dangerous if you accidentally reset the variable being used for the terminal condition, causing an infinite loop.

Printing variable values with each cycle of your loop by using `console.log()` can uncover buggy behavior related to resetting, or failing to reset a variable.

---

# Prevent Infinite Loops with a Valid Terminal Condition
Loops are great tools when you need your program to run a code block a certain number of times or until a condition is met, but they need a terminal condition that ends the looping. Infinite loops are likely to freeze or crash the browser, and cause general program execution mayhem, which no one wants.

There was an example of an infinite loop in the introduction to this section - it had no terminal condition to break out of the `while` loop inside `loopy()`. Do NOT call this function!

```js
function loopy() {
  while(true) {
    console.log("Hello, world!");
  }
}
```

It's the programmer's job to ensure that the terminal condition, which tells the program when to break out of the loop code, is eventually reached. One error is incrementing or decrementing a counter variable in the wrong direction from the terminal condition. Another one is accidentally resetting a counter or index variable within the loop code, instead of incrementing or decrementing it.