# Promise

A promise in [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] is exactly what it sounds like - we use it to make a promise to do something, usually [[asynchronously]]. When the task completes, we either fulfill our promise or fail to do so. `Promise` is a constructor function, so we need to use the `new` keyword to create one. It takes a function, as its argument, with two parameters - `resolve` and `reject`. These are methods used to determine the outcome of the promise. The syntax looks like this:

```js
const myPromise = new promise((resolve, reject)) => {

}
```

----

# **Complete a Promise with resolve and reject**
A promise has three states: `pending`, `fulfilled`, and `rejected`. The promise we created above is forever stuck in the `pending` state because we did not add a way to complete the promise. The `resolve` and `reject` parameters given to the promise argument are used to do this. `resolve` is used when you want your promise to succeed, and `reject` is used when you want it to fail. These are methods that take an argument, as seen below.

```js
const myPromise = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
  if(condition here) {
    resolve("Promise was fulfilled");
  } else {
    reject("Promise was rejected");
  }
});
```
The example above uses strings for the argument of these [[7. Function|functions]], but it can really be anything. Often, it might be an object, that you would use data from, to put on your website or elsewhere.

---

# Handle a Fulfilled Promise with then
Promises are most useful when we have a process that takes an unknown amount of time in our code (ie. something asynchronous), often a server request. When we make a server request it takes some amount of time, and after it completes we usually want to do something with the response from the server. This can be achieved by using the `then` method. The `then` method is executed immediately after we promise is fulfilled with `resolve`. Here's an example:

```js
myPromise.then(result => {
  
});
```
`result` comes from the argument given to the `resolve` method.

```js
const makeServerRequest = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
	// responseFromServer is set to true to represent a successful response from a server
	let responseFromServer = true;
	if(responseFromServer) {
	resolve("We got the data");
	} else {
	reject("Data not received");
	}
});
	
makeServerRequest.then(result => {	
	console.log(result);
});
```

---

# **Handle a Rejected Promise with catch**
`catch` is the method used when our promise has been rejected. It is executed immediately after a promise's `reject` method is called. Here's the syntax.

```js
myPromise.catch(error => {
  
});
```

`error` is the argument passed in to the `reject` method.

```js
const makeServerRequest = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
	// responseFromServer is set to true to represent a successful response from a server
	let responseFromServer = true;
	if(responseFromServer) {
	resolve("We got the data");
	} else {
	reject("Data not received");
	}
});
	
makeServerRequest.then(result => {	
	console.log(result);
});

makeServerRequest.catch(error => {	
	console.log(error);
});
```
