# Use Arrow [[7. Function|Functions]] to Write [[Concise]] Anonymous [[7. Function|Functions]]
In [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]], we often don't need to name our [[7. Function|functions]], especially when passing a function as an argument to another function. Instead, we create inline [[7. Function|functions]]. We don't need to name these [[7. Function|functions]] because we do not reuse them anywhere else.

To achieve this, we often use the following syntax:

```js
const myFunc = function () {
	const myVar = "value";
	return myVar;
}
```

ES6 provides us with the syntactic sugar to not have to write anonymous [[7. Function|functions]] this way. Instead, you can use **arrow function syntax**:

```js
const myFunc = () => {
	const myVar = "value";
	return myVar;
}
```

When there is no function body, and only a return value, arrow function syntax allows you to omit the keyword `return` as well as the brackets surrounding the code. This helps simplify smaller [[7. Function|functions]] into one-line statements:

```js
const myFunc = () => "value";
```

This code will still return the [[5. String|string]] `value` by default.

---

# **Write Arrow [[7. Function|Functions]] with Parameters**
Just like a regular function, you can pass arguments into an arrow function.

```js
const doubler = (item) => item * 2;
doubler(4);
```
`doubler(4)` would return the value `8`.

If an arrow function has a single parameter, the [[parentheses]] enclosing the parameter may be omitted.

```js
const doubler = item => item * 2;
```

It is possible to pass more than one argument into an arrow function.

``` js
const multiplier = (item, multi) => item * multil
multiplier(4, 2);
```
`multiplier(4, 2)` would return the value `8`.

---

# Set Default Parameter for [[7. Function|Functions]]
In order to help us create more flexible [[7. Function|functions]], ES6 introduces default parameters for [[7. Function|functions]].

Check out this code:
```js
const greeting = (name = "Anoymous") => "Hello " + name;

console.log(greeting("john"));
console.log(greeting());
```
The [[1. console|console]] will display the strings `Hello John` and `Hello Anonymous`.

The default parameter kicks in when the argument is not specified (it is undefined). As you can see in the example above, the parameter `name` will receive its default value `Anonymous` when you do not provide a value for the parameter. You can add default values for as many parameters as you want.

--- 

# Use the Rest Parameter with Function Parameters
In order to help us create more flexible [[7. Function|functions]], ES6 introduces the *rest parameter* for function parameters. With the rest parameter, we can create [[7. Function|functions]] that take a variable number of arguments. These arguments are stored in an array that can be accessed later from inside the function.

```js
fcuntion func(...args) {
	return "You have passed " + args.length + " arguments.";
}

console.log(howMany(0, 1, 2));
console.log("str", null, [1, 2, 3], { })
```
The [[1. console|console]] would display the strings `You have passed 3 arguments.` and `You have passed 4 arguments.`.

The rest parameter eliminates the need to check the `args` array and allows us to apply `map()`, `filter()` and `reduce()` on the parameters array.

---


# Use this keyword in Arrow Functions
 What if we use the arrow function.

```js
const parent = {
  mom_name: "Samantha Quinn",
  mother: () => {
    return `${this.mom_name} is my mother.`;
  },
};
console.log(parent.mother());
```

We get `undefined.....`.

It actually makes sense. In the regular function, a function always defines its `this` value. Arrow functions treat `this` keyword differently. They don’t define their own context since it doesn’t have its own `this` context. They inherit that from the parent scope whenever you call `this`.

`this` in regular function always refers to the context of the function being called. However, in the arrow function, `this` has nothing to do with the caller of the function. It refers to the scope where the function (the enclosing context) is present. That’s why we get undefined.

To understand `this`, let’s go through another example.

```js
function User() {
  (this.name = "John Doe"),
    (this.score = 20),
    (this.sayUser = function () {
      // when `this` is accessible
      console.log(this.name);

      function innerFunction() {
        // when `this` refers to the global scope/object
        console.log(this.name);
      }

      innerFunction();
    });
}
let name = new User();
name.sayUser();
```

Output:

```js
John Doe

undefined
```

In the first case, we get the user name because `this.name` is inside `this.sayUser`, which is accessible. The reason is because `this.sayUser` is a method of the object `User`.

On the other hand, the `this.name` inside `innerFunction` function is not accessible. It refers to the global object window where `sayUser` is not defined—thus returning `undefined`.

To solve that, you would typically assign `this` to a variable that doesn’t shadow `innerFunction`.

For example:

```js
function User() {
  (this.name = "John Doe"),
    (this.score = 20),
    (this.sayUserName = function () {
      // when `this` is accessible
      console.log(this.name);

      // when `this` refers to the global scope/object
      // a variable that doesn't shadow `innerFunction`
      let self = this;
      function innerFunction() {
        console.log(self.name);
      }

      innerFunction();
    });
}
let name = new User();
name.sayUserName();
```

However, when the `innerFunction` is inside an arrow function, `this` will refer to the parent scope by creating `this` of its own context.

For example:

```js
function User() {
  (this.name = "John Doe"),
    (this.score = 20),
    (this.sayUser = function () {
      // when `this` is accessible
      console.log(this.name);

      let innerFunction = () => {
        // when `this` refers to the global scope/object
        console.log(this.name);
      };

      innerFunction();
    });
}
let name = new User();
name.sayUser();
```