# **Destructuring Assignment**
Destructuring assignment is special syntax introduced in ES6, for neatly assigning values taken directly from an object.

# **Extract Values from Objects**
Consider the following ES5 code:

```js
const user = { name: 'john', age: 30 };

const name = user.name;
const age = user.age;
```
`name` would have a value of the [[5. String|string]] `John Doe`, and `age` would have the number `34`.

Here's an equivalent assignment statement using the ES6 destructuring syntax:

```js
const {name, age} = user;
```
Again, `name` would have a value of the [[5. String|string]] `John Doe`, and `age` would have the number `34`.

Here, the `name` and `age` variables will be created and assigned the values of their respective values from the `user` object. We can see how much cleaner this is.

We can extract as many of few values from the object  as we want.

---

# Assign Variables from Objects
Destructuring allows us to assign a new variable name when extracting values. We can do this by putting the new name after a colon when assigning the value.

Here's how you can give new variable names in the assignment:

```js
const { name: userName, age: userAge } = user;
```
We may read it as "get value of `user.name` and assign it to a new variable named `userName`" and so on. The value of `userName` would be the [[5. String|string]] `John Doe`, and the value of `userAge` would be the number `34`.

---

# Assign Variable from Nested Objects
```js
const user = {
  johnDoe: { 
    age: 34,
    email: 'johnDoe@freeCodeCamp.com'
  }
};

const { johnDoe: {age, email} } = user;
const { johnDoe: {age: userAge, email: userEmail} } = user;
```

```js
const LOCAL_FORECAST = {
	yesterday: { low: 61, high: 75 },
	today: { low: 64, high: 77 },
	tomorrow: { low: 68, high: 80 }
};

const { today: {low: lowToday}, today: {high: highToday} } = LOCAL_FORECAST;
```

---
# **Assign Variables from [[6. Array|Arrays]]**
ES6 makes destructuring [[6. Array|arrays]] as easy as destructuring objects.

One key difference between the spread operator and array destructuring is that the spread operator unpacks all contents of an array into a comma-separated list. Consequently, you cannot pick or choose which elements you want to assign to variables.

Destructuring an array lets us do exactly that:

```js
const [a, b] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6];
console.log(a, b);
```
The console will display the values of `a` and `b` as `1, 2`.

The variable `a` is assigned the first value of the array, and `b` is assigned the second value of the array. We can also access the value at any index in an array with destructuring by using commas to reach the desired index:

```js
const [a, b,,, c] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6];
console.log(a, b, c);
```

The console will display the values of `a`, `b`, and `c` as `1, 2, 5`.

**Swap value**
```js
let a = 8, b = 6;
[a, b] = [b, a];
```

---
