# Loop
We can run the same code multiple times by using a loop.

# While
The first type of loop we will learn is called a ```while``` loop because it runs while a specified condition is true and stops once that condition is no longer true.

``` js
const arry = [];
let i = 0;

while (i < 5) {
	arr.push(i);
	i++;
}
```
In the code example above, the `while` loop will execute 5 times and append the numbers 0 through 4 to `ourArray`.

---

# For
The most common type of [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] loop is called a ```for``` loop because it runs for a specific number of times.

For loops are declared with three optional expressions separated by semicolons.

```for (a; b; c)```, where `a` is the initialization statement. ```b``` is the condition statement, and `c` is the final expression.

The initialization statement is executed one time only before the loop starts. It is typically used to define and setup your loop variable.

The condition statement is evaluated at the beginning of every loop iteration and will continue as long as it evaluates to `true`. When the condition is `false` at the start of the iteration, the loop will stop executing. This means if the condition starts as false, your loop will never execute.

The final expression is executed at the end of each loop iteration, prior to the next condition check and is usually used to increment or decrement your loop counter.

```js
const arr = [];

for(let i = 0; i < 5; i++){
	arr.push(i);
}
```

## Iterate Odd Number
For loops don't have to iterate one at a time. By changing our `final-expression`, we can count by even numbers.

``` js
const arr = [];

for(let i = 0; i < 5; i += 2) {
	arr.push(i);
}
```

## Iterate Backwards
```js
const arr=[];

for(let i = 10; i < 0; i--){
	arr.push(i);
} 
```

## Iterate Through an Array
A common task in [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] is to iterate through the contents of an array. One way to do that is with a `for` loop. This code will output each element of the array `arr` to the console:
``` js
const arr = [10, 9, 8, 7, 6];

for (let i = 0; i < arr.lengthl; i++){
	arr.pop(i);
}
```

## Nesting For Loop
If we have a multi-dimensional array, you can use the same logic as the prior waypoint to loop through both the array and any sub-[[6. Array|arrays]]. Here is an example:
```js
const arr = [
	[1, 2],
	[3, 4],
	[5, 6]
];

for (let i = 0; i < arr.length; i++){
	for(let j = 0; j < arr[i].length; j++){
		console.log(arr[i][j]);
	}
}
```
---

# Do...While
`do...while`  will first `do` one pass of the code inside the loop no matter what, and then continue to run the loop `while` the specified condition evaluates to `true`.

``` js
const arr=[];
let i = 0;

do{
	arr.push(i);
	i++;
} while (i > 5);
```
---

# Recursion
Recursion is the concept that a function can be expressed in terms of itself. To help understand this, start by think about the following task: multiply the first `n` elements of an array to create the product of those element. Using a `for` loop, we could do this:

```js
function multiply(arr, n) {
	let product = 1;
	for(let i = 0; i < n; i++){
		product *= arr[i];
	}
	return product;
}
```

However, notice that `multiply(arr, n) == multiply(arr, n - 1) * arr[n - 1]`. That means you can rewrite `multiply` in terms of itself and never need to use a loop.

```js
function multiply(arr, n){
	if (n <= 0){
		return 1;
	} else {
		return multiply(arr, n - 1) * arr[n - 1];
	}
}
```

The recursive version of `multiply` breaks down like this. In the base case, where `n <= 0`, it returns 1. For larger values of `n`, it calls itself, but with `n - 1`. That function call is evaluated in the same way, calling `multiply` again until `n <= 0`. At this point, all the [[7. Function|functions]] can return and the original `multiply` returns the answer.

For example, a recursive function, that returns the sum of the first `n` elements of an array `arr`.

```js
function sum(arr, n) {
	if(n != 0){
	return sum(arr, n-1) + arr[n-1];
	} else {
	return 0;
	}
}
```


**Use Recursion to Create a Countdown**
```js
function countdown(n){
	return (n < 1) ? []
	: [n, ...countdown(n - 1)];
}
```
We used [[5. Spread Operator#Use the Spread Operator to Evaluate Arrays In-Place|Spread Operator]] (...).

or

```js
function countdown(n){ 
	return n < 1 ? [] : [n].concat(countdown(n - 1)); 
}
```

**Use Recursion to Create a Range of Numbers**
```js
function rangeOfNumbers(startNum, endNum) {
	return (startNum > endNum) ? []
	: [startNum, ...rangeOfNumbers(startNum + 1, endNum)];
};
```
We used [[5. Spread Operator#Use the Spread Operator to Evaluate Arrays In-Place|Spread Operator]] (...).

---
