# Math

# Random
Random numbers are useful for creating random behavior.

[[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] has a `math.random()` function that generates a random decimal number between `0` (inclusive) and `1` (exclusive). Thus `Math.random()` can return a `0` but never return a `1`.

## Random Whole Numbers
It's great that we can generate random decimal numbers, but it's even more useful if we use it to generate random whole numbers.

1.  Use `Math.random()` to generate a random decimal.
2.  Multiply that random decimal by `20`.
3.  Use another function, `Math.floor()` to round the number down to its nearest whole number.

Remember that `Math.random()` can never quite return a `1` and, because we're rounding down, it's impossible to actually get `20`. This technique will give us a whole number between `0` and `19`.

Putting everything together, this is what our code looks like:

```js
Math.floor(Math.random() * 20);
```
We are calling `Math.random()`, multiplying the result by 20, then passing the value to `Math.floor()` function to round the value down to the nearest whole number.

## Random Whole Numbers within a Range
To do this, we'll define a minimum number `min` and a maximum number `max`.

Here's the formula we'll use. Take a moment to read it and try to understand what this code is doing:

```js
Math.floor(Math.random() * (max - min + 1)) + min
```
---

# ParseInt
The `parseInt()` function parses a [[5. String|string]] and returns an integer. Here's an example:

```js
const a = parseInt("007");
```
The above function converts the [[5. String|string]] `007` to the integer `7`. If the first character in the [[5. String|string]] can't be converted into a number, then it returns `NaN`.

## **ParseInt Function with a Radix**
The `parseInt()` function parses a [[5. String|string]] and returns an integer. It takes a second argument for the radix, which specifies the base of the number in the [[5. String|string]]. The radix can be an integer between 2 and 36.

```js
const a = parseInt("11", 2);
```
The radix variable says that `11` is in the binary system, or base 2. This example converts the [[5. String|string]] `11` to an integer `3`.

---




