---
aliases: [variables, 3. Varianles]
aliases: [variable, 3. Varianles]
aliases: [Data type, 3. Varianles#Data type]
---

# Variables
In computer science, data is anything that is meaningful to the computer. 

# Data type
[[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] provides eight different data types which are 
- `undefined` 
- `null`
- `boolean`
- `string`
- `symbol`
- `bigint`
- `number`
- `object`

For example, computer [[distinguish]] between numbers,  such as the number `12`, and `strings`, such as `"12"`, `"dog"`, or `"123 cats"`, which are collections of characters. Computers can perform mathematical operations on a number, but not on a string.

---

# typeof
In [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]], you can determine the type of a variable or a value with the `typeof`operator, as follows:
```js
typeof 3
typeof '3'
```

`typeof 3` returns the string `number`, and `typeof '3'` returns the string `string`.

---
# Declar [[3. Variables|Variables]]
[[3. Variables|Variables]] allow computers to store and [[manipulate]] data in dynamic fashion. They do this by using a '"label" to point to the data rather than using the data itself. Any of the eight data types may be stored in a [[3. Variables|Variable]].

[[3. Variables|Variable]] are similar to the x and y variables you use in mathematics, which means they're a simple name to represent the data we want to refer to. Computer [[3. Variables|variables]] differ from mathematical variables in that they can store different values at different times.

## Using var
We tell [[1. JavaScript|javaScript]] to create or declare a variable by putting the keyword ```var``` in front of it, like so:

```js
var ourName;
```
Here we creates a [[3. Variables|variable]] called ```ourName```. In [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] we end statements with a [[semicolon]]. [[3. Variables|Variable]] names can be made up of numbers, letters, and ```$``` or ```_```, but may not contain spaces or start with a number.

One of the biggest problems with declaring variables with the `var` keyword is that you can easily overwrite variable declarations:

```js
var camper = "James";
var camper = "David";
console.log(camper);
```
In the code above, the `camper` variable is originally declared as `James`, and is then overridden to be `David`. The console then displays the string `David`.

## Using let
A keyword called ```let``` was introduced in ES6, a major update to [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]], to solve this potential issues with ```var``` keyword.
If we use `let` in the code above, it results in an error:
```js
let camper = "James";
let camper = "David";
```

The error can be seen in our browser console.

So unlike `var`, when you use `let`, a variable with the same name can only be declared once.

# Using const
In ES6, we can also declare variables using the ```const``` keyword. ```const``` has all the awesome features that ```let``` has, with the added bonus that variables declared using ```const``` are **read-only**. They are constant value, which means that once a variable is assigned with ```const```, it cannot be reassigned:
```js
const FAV_PET = "Cats";
FAV_PET = "Dogs";
```
The console will display an error due to reassigning the value of `FAV_PET`.

We should always name variables you don't want to reassign using the `const` keyword. This helps when you accidentally attempt to reassign a variable that is meant to stay constant.

A common [[practice]] when naming constants is to use *all uppercase letters*, with words separated by an underscore.

---
# Storing Values
In [[1. JavaScript|Javascript]], we can store a value in a [[3. Variables|variable]] with the ```assignment``` operator (```=```).

```js
myVariable = 5;
```
This assigns the ```number``` value ```5``` to ```myVariable```.

If there are any calculations to the right of the ```=``` operator, those are performed before the value is assigned to the [[3. Variables|variable]] on the left of the operator.

``` js
var myVar;
myVar = 5;
```
First, this code create a [[3. Variables|variable]] named ```myVar```. Then, the code assigns ```5``` to ```myVar```. Now if ```myVar``` appears again in the code, the program will treat if as if it is ```5```.

---

# Assigning the Value of One Variable to Another
After a value is assigned to a [[3. Variables|variable]] using the assignment operator, we can assign the value of that [[3. Variables|variable]] to another [[3. Variables|variable]] using the assignment operator.

```js
var myVar;
myVar = 5;
var myNum;
myNum = myVar;
```
The above declares a `myVar` [[3. Variables|variable]] with no value, then assigns it the value `5`. Next, a [[3. Variables|variable]] named `myNum` is declared with no value. Then, the contents of `myVar` (which is `5`) is assigned to the variable `myNum`. Now, `myNum` also has the value of `5`.

---

# Initializing Variables
It is common to initialize a [[3. Variables|variable]] to an initial value in the same line as it is declared.

```js
var myVar = 0;
```
Creates a new variable called `myVar` and assigns it an initial value of `0`.

---
# Declare String Variables
We can declare a string [[3. Variables|variable]] like this:

``` js
var myName = "my name";
```

```my name``` is called a *string literal*. A string literal, or string, is a series of zero or more characters enclosed in single or double quotes.

---
# Uninitialized Variables
When [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] [[3. Variables|variables]] are declared, they an initial value of ```undefined```. If we do a mathematical operation on an ```undefined``` variable we result will be ```NaN``` which means ```Not a Number```. If we concatenate a string with an ```undefined``` variable, we will get a literal string of ```undefined```.

---
# Case sensitivity in Variables
In [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] all variables and function names are case sensitive. This means that capitalization matters.

`MYVAR` is not the same as `MyVar` nor `myvar`. It is possible to have multiple distinct variables with the same name but different casing. It is strongly recommended that for the sake of clarity, you _do not_ use this language feature.

---


