---
aliases: [string, 5. String]
---
# String

# Escaping Literal Quotes in Strings
In [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]], we can escape a quote from considering it as an end of string quote by placing a backslash (`\`) in front of the quote.

```js
const sampleStr = "Alan said, \"Peter is learning JavaScript\".";
```

This signals to [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] that the following quote is not the end of the string, but should instead appear inside the string. So if you were to print this to the console, we would get:

```js
Alan said, "Peter is learning [[1. [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]]|JavaScript]]".
```

--- 
# Quoting String with Single Quotes
String values in [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] may be written with single or double quotes, as long as you start and end with the same type of quote. Unlike some other programming languages, single 
and double quotes work the same in [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]].

```js
const doubleQuoteStr = "This is a string"; 
const singleQuoteStr = 'This is also a string';
```

The reason why you might want to use one type of quote over the other is if you want to use both in a string. This might happen if you want to save a conversation in a string and have the conversation in quotes. Another use for it would be saving an `<a>` tag with various attributes in quotes, all within a string.

```js
const conversation = 'Finn exclaims to Jake, "Algebraic!"';
```

----
# Escape Sequences in Strings
Quotes are not the only characters that can be *escaped* inside a string. There are two reasons to use escaping characters:

- To allow us to use characters we may not otherwise be able to type out, such as a carriage return.
- To allow us to represent multiple quotes in a string without [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] [[misinterpret|misinterpreting]] what we mean.

Code  Output

`\'` single quote

`\"` double quote

`\\` backslash

`\n` newline

`\r` carriage return

`\t` tab

`\b` word boundary

`\f` form feed

_Note that the backslash itself must be escaped in order to display as a backslash._

---
# [[Concatenating]] Strings
## by Plus Operator
In [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]], when the `+` operator is used with a `String` value, it is called the concatenation operator. We can build a new string out of other strings by [[concatenating]] them together.

```js
const ourStr = "I come first. " + "I come second.";
```

We can also use the `+=` operator to concatenate a string onto the end of an existing string variable. This can be very helpful to break a long string over several lines.

```js
let ourStr = "I come first. ";
ourStr += "I come second.";
```

Sometimes you will need to build a string, [Mad Libs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mad_Libs) style. By using the concatenation operator (`+`), you can insert one or more variables into a string our building.

```js
const ourName = "freeCodeCamp";
const ourStr = "Hello, our name is " + ourName + ", how are you?";
```
`ourStr` would have a value of the string `Hello, our name is freeCodeCamp, how are you?`.

---
# Length of a String
We can find the length of a ```String``` value by writing ```.length``` after the string variable or string literal.

```js
console.log("hello".length);
```
The value ```5``` would be displayed in the [[1. console|console]].

----
# Find the Nth character in a String
Bracket notation is a way to get a character at a specific index within a string.

[[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]], don't start counting at 1 like humans do. They start at 0. This is referred to as Zero-based indexing.

For example, the character at index 0 in the word `Charles` is `C`. So if `const firstName = "Charles"`, you can get the value of the first letter of the string by using `firstName[0]`.

```js
const firstName = "Terry";
const firetLeter = firstName[0];
```
```firestLeter``` would have a value of the string ```c```.

To find the last character:
```js
cont lastLeter = firstName[firstName.length-1];
```

----
# **String Immutability**
In [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]], `String` values are [[immutable]], which means that they cannot be [[altered]] once created. 

```js
let myStr = "Bob";
myStr[0] = "J";
```

cannot change the value of `myStr` to `Job`, because the contents of `myStr` cannot be [[altered]]. Note that this does _not_ mean that `myStr` cannot be changed, just that the individual characters of a string literal cannot be changed. The only way to change `myStr`would be to assign it with a new string, like this:

```js
let myStr = "Bob";
myStr = "Job";
```

---

# .split()

```js
onst str = 'The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.';

const words = str.split(' ');
console.log(words[3]);
// expected output: "fox"

const chars = str.split('');
console.log(chars[8]);
// expected output: "k"

const strCopy = str.split();
console.log(strCopy);
// expected output: Array ["The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog."]
```

---

# .slice()
Rather than modifying an array, `slice()` copies or *extracts* a given number of elements to a new array, leaving the array it is called upon untouched. `clice()` takes only 2 parameter -  the first is the index at which to begin extraction, and the second is the index at which to stop extraction (extraction will occur up to, but not including the element at this index). Consider this:

```js
let weatherConditions = ['rain', 'snow', 'sleet', 'hail', 'clear'];

let todaysWeather = weatherConditions.slice(1, 3);
```
`todaysWeather` would have the value `['snow', 'sleet']`, while `weatherConditions` would still have `['rain', 'snow', 'sleet', 'hail', 'clear']`.

---

# .endsWith()
was introduced in ES2015, Check if a string ends with the given target string. `endsWith('n')`

---

# .repeat()

Repeat a given string for `num` times `.repeat(100)`

---

# .replace()
```js
const p = 'The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog. If the dog reacted, was it really lazy?';

console.log(p.replace('dog', 'monkey'));
// expected output: "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy monkey. If the dog reacted, was it really lazy?"


const regex = /Dog/i;
console.log(p.replace(regex, 'ferret'));
// expected output: "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy ferret. If the dog reacted, was it really lazy?"

```

---
# String.prototype.trim()