---
aliases: [function, 7. Function]
aliases: [functions, 7. Function]
---

# Function
We can write reusable [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] with functions. In [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]], we can divide up our code into reusable parts called functions.Here's an example of a function:

```js
function functionName() {
	console.log("hello world")
}
```

We can call *invoke* this function by using its name followed by parentheses, like this: ```functionName();```. Each time the function is called it will print out the message ```hello world``` on the dev console. All of the code between the curly braces will be executed every time the function is called.

---

# Passing Values to Functions with Arguments
Parameters are variables that act as placeholders for the values that are to be input to a function when it is called. When a function is defined, it is typically defined along with one or more parameters. The actual values that are input (or "passed") into a function when it is called are known as arguments.

Here is a function with two parameters, `param1` and `param2`:

```js
function myFunction(parame1, param2) {
	consle.log(param1, param2);
}
```
Then we can call `myFunction` like this: `myFunction("Hello", "World");`. We have passed two [[5. String|string]] arguments, `Hello` and `World`. Inside the function, `param1` will equal the [[5. String|string]] `Hello` and `param2` will equal the [[5. String|string]] `World`. Note that you could call `myFunction` again with different arguments and the parameters would take on the value of the new arguments.

---

# Return Values from a Function with Return
We can use a `return` statement to send a value back out of a function. Like this:

```js
function plusThree(num) {
	return num + 3;
}
const answer = plusThree(5);
```
```answer``` will have the value ```8```.
`plusThree` takes an argument for `num` and returns a value equal to `num + 3`.

# **Returning Boolean Values from Functions**
 All comparison operators return a boolean `true` or `false` value.

```js
function isEqual(a, b) {
  return a === b;
}
```

---
# Scope
In [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]], scope refers to the visibility of variables. 

## Global Scope and Functions
Variables which are defined outside of a function block have Global scope. This means, they can be seen everywhere in your [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] code.

Variables which are declared without the `let` or `const` keywords are automatically created in the `global` scope. This can create unintended consequences elsewhere in your code or when running a function again. You should always declare your variables with `let` or `const`.

## Global Scope and Functions
Variables which are declared within a function, as well as the function parameters, have local scope. That means they are only visible within that function.

Here is a function `myTest` with a local variable called `loc`.

```js
function myTest() {
  const loc = "foo";
  console.log(loc);
}

myTest();
console.log(loc);
```
The `myTest()` function call will display the [[5. String|string]] `foo` in the console. The `console.log(loc)` line will throw an error, as `loc` is not defined outside of the function.

## **Global vs. Local Scope in Functions**
It is possible to have both local and global variables with the same name. When you do this, the local variable takes precedence over the global variable.

In this example:

```js
const someVar = "Hat";

function myFun() {
  const someVar = "Head";
  return someVar;
}
```

The function `myFun` will return the [[5. String|string]] `Head` because the local version of the variable is present.

---

# **Undefined Value returned from a Function**
A function can include the ```return``` statement but it does not have to. In the case that the function doesn't have a `return` statement, when you call it, the function processes the inner code but the returned value is `undefined`. Like this:

```js
let sum = 0;

function addSum(num) {
	sum+=num;
}

addSum(3);
```
`addSum` is a function without a `return` statement. The function will change the global `sum` variable but the returned value of the function is `undefined`.

---

# **Return Early Pattern for Functions**

When a `return` statement is reached, the execution of the current function stops and control returns to the calling location.

```js
function myFun() {
  console.log("Hello");
  return "World";
  console.log("byebye")
}
myFun();
```
The above will display the string `Hello` in the console, and return the string `World`. The string `byebye` will never display in the console, because the function exits at the `return`statement.
