# Boolean
Booleans may only be one of two values: `true` or `false`. They are basically little on-off switches, where `true` is on and `false` is off. These two states are [[mutually]] exclusive. It look like:

```js
function isValid(){
	return false;
}
```

--- 

# [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] Operator
There are many comparison operators in [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]]. All of these operators return a boolean `true` or `false` value.

---
# **Use Conditional Logic with If Statements**
`if` statements are used to make decisions in code. The keyword `if` tells [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] to execute the code in the curly braces under certain conditions, defined in the parentheses. These conditions are known as `Boolean` conditions and they may only be `true` or `false`.

When the condition evaluates to `true`, the program executes the statement inside the curly braces. When the Boolean condition evaluates to `false`, the statement inside the curly braces will not execute.

Example:

```js
function test (myCondition) {
  if (myCondition) {
    return "It was true";
  }
  return "It was false";
}

test(true);
test(false);
```
`test(true)` returns the [[5. String|string]] `It was true`, and `test(false)` returns the [[5. String|string]] `It was false`.

When `test` is called with a value of `true`, the `if` statement evaluates `myCondition` to see if it is `true` or not. Since it is `true`, the function returns `It was true`. When we call `test` with a value of `false`, `myCondition` is _not_ `true` and the statement in the curly braces is not executed and the function returns `It was false`.

## **Else Statements**
When a condition for an `if` statement is true, the block of code following it is executed. What about when that condition is false? Normally nothing would happen. With an `else`statement, an alternate block of code can be executed.

```js
if (num > 10) {
  return "Bigger than 10";
} else {
  return "10 or Less";
}
```

## **Else If Statements**
If you have multiple conditions that need to be addressed, you can chain `if` statements together with `else if` statements.

```js
if (num > 15) {
  return "Bigger than 15";
} else if (num < 5) {
  return "Smaller than 5";
} else {
  return "Between 5 and 15";
}
```

---

# **Comparison with the Equality Operator**
The most basic operator is the equality operator `==`. The equality operator compares two values and returns `true` if they're equivalent or `false` if they are not. Note that equality is different from assignment (`=`), which assigns the value on the right of the operator to a variable on the left.

```js
function equalityTest(myVal) {
  if (myVal == 10) {
    return "Equal";
  }
  return "Not Equal";
}
```

If `myVal` is equal to `10`, the equality operator returns `true`, so the code in the curly braces will execute, and the function will return `Equal`. Otherwise, the function will return `Not Equal`. In order for [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] to compare two different data types (for example, `numbers` and `strings`), it must convert one type to another. This is known as Type Coercion. Once it does, however, it can compare terms as follows:

```js
1   ==  1
1   ==  2
1   == '1'
"3" ==  3
```
In order, these expressions would evaluate to `true`, `false`, `true`, and `true`.

---

# **Comparison with the Strict Equality Operator**
Strict equality (`===`) is the [[counterpart]] to the equality operator (`==`). However, unlike the equality operator, which attempts to convert both values being compared to a common type, the strict equality operator does not perform a type conversion.

If the values being compared have different types, they are considered unequal, and the strict equality operator will return false.


```js
3 ===  3
3 === '3'
```
These conditions would return `true` and `false` respectively.
In the second example, `3` is a `Number` type and `'3'` is a `String` type.

--- 

# **Comparison with the Inequality Operator**
The inequality operator (`!=`) is the opposite of the equality operator. It means not equal and returns `false` where equality would return `true` and _vice versa_. Like the equality operator, the inequality operator will convert data types of values while comparing.

```js
1 !=  2
1 != "1"
1 != '1'
1 != true
0 != false
```
In order, these expressions would evaluate to `true`, `false`, `false`, `false`, and `false`.

---

# **Comparison with the Strict Inequality Operator**
The strict inequality operator (`!==`) is the logical opposite of the strict equality operator. It means "Strictly Not Equal" and returns `false` where strict equality would return `true` and _vice versa_. The strict inequality operator will not convert data types.

```js
3 !==  3
3 !== '3'
4 !==  3
```
In order, these expressions would evaluate to `false`, `true`, and `true`.

---

# **Comparison with the Greater Than Operator**
The greater than operator (`>`) compares the values of two numbers. If the number to the left is greater than the number to the right, it returns `true`. Otherwise, it returns `false`.

Like the equality operator, the greater than operator will convert data types of values while comparing.

```js
5   >  3
7   > '3'
2   >  3
'1' >  9
```
In order, these expressions would evaluate to `true`, `true`, `false`, and `false`.

---

# **Comparison with the Greater Than Or Equal To Operator**
The greater than or equal to operator (`>=`) compares the values of two numbers. If the number to the left is greater than or equal to the number to the right, it returns `true`. Otherwise, it returns `false`.

Like the equality operator, the greater than or equal to operator will convert data types while comparing.

```js
6   >=  6
7   >= '3'
2   >=  3
'7' >=  9
```
In order, these expressions would evaluate to `true`, `true`, `false`, and `false`.

---

# **Comparison with the Less Than Operator**
The less than operator (`<`) compares the values of two numbers. If the number to the left is less than the number to the right, it returns `true`. Otherwise, it returns `false`. Like the equality operator, the less than operator converts data types while comparing.

```js
2   < 5
'3' < 7
5   < 5
3   < 2
'8' < 4
```
In order, these expressions would evaluate to `true`, `true`, `false`, `false`, and `false`.

---

# **Comparison with the Less Than Operator**
The less than operator (`<`) compares the values of two numbers. If the number to the left is less than the number to the right, it returns `true`. Otherwise, it returns `false`. Like the equality operator, the less than operator converts data types while comparing.

```js
2   < 5
'3' < 7
5   < 5
3   < 2
'8' < 4
```
In order, these expressions would evaluate to `true`, `true`, `false`, `false`, and `false`.

--- 

# **Comparison with the Less Than Or Equal To Operator**
The less than or equal to operator (`<=`) compares the values of two numbers. If the number to the left is less than or equal to the number to the right, it returns `true`. If the number on the left is greater than the number on the right, it returns `false`. Like the equality operator, the less than or equal to operator converts data types.

```js
4   <= 5
'7' <= 7
5   <= 5
3   <= 2
'8' <= 4
```
In order, these expressions would evaluate to `true`, `true`, `true`, `false`, and `false`.

---

# **Comparisons with the Logical And Operator**
Sometimes you will need to test more than one thing at a time. The logical and operator (`&&`) returns `true` if and only if the operands to the left and right of it are true.

```js
if (num > 5 && num < 10) {
  return "Yes";
}
return "No";
```
---

# **Comparisons with the Logical Or Operator**

The logical or operator (`||`) returns `true` if either of the operands is `true`. Otherwise, it returns `false`.

The logical or operator is composed of two pipe symbols: (`||`). This can typically be found between your Backspace and Enter keys.

```js
if (num > 10 || num < 5) {
  return "No";
}
return "Yes";
```
---

# **Switch Statements**
If we have many options to choose from, use a switch statement. A `switch` statement tests a value and can have many case statements which define various possible values. Statements are executed from the first matched `case` value until a `break` is encountered.

```js
switch(lowercaseLetter) {
  case "a":
    console.log("A");
    break;
  case "b":
    console.log("B");
    break;
}
```
`case` values are tested with strict equality (`===`). The `break` tells JavaScript to stop executing statements. If the `break` is omitted, the next statement will be executed.

In a `switch` statement you may not be able to specify all possible values as `case` statements. Instead, we can add the `default` statement which will be executed if no matching `case` statements are found. Think of it like the final `else` statement in an `if/else` chain.

A ```defalut``` statement should be the last case.

```js
switch (num) {
  case value1:
    statement1;
    break;
  case value2:
    statement2;
    break;
...
  default:
    defaultStatement;
    break;
}
```

## **Multiple Identical Options in Switch Statements**
If the `break` statement is omitted from a `switch` statement's `case`, the following `case`statement(s) are executed until a `break` is encountered. If you have multiple inputs with the same output, you can represent them in a `switch` statement like this:

```js
let result = "";
switch(val) {
  case 1:
  case 2:
  case 3:
    result = "1, 2, or 3";
    break;
  case 4:
    result = "4 alone";
}
```
Cases for 1, 2, and 3 will all produce the same result.

---

# Conditional (Ternary) Operator
The conditional operator, also called the ternary operator, can be used as a one line if-else expression.

The syntax is `a ? b : c` , where a is the condition, `b` is the code to run when the condition returns `true`, and `c` is the code to run when the condition reruns `false`.

The following function uses an `if/else` statement to check a condition:

```js
function findGreater(a, b) {
  if(a > b) {
    return "a is greater";
  }
  else {
    return "b is greater or equal";
  }
}
```

This can be re-written using the conditional operator:

```js
function findGreater(a, b) {
	return a > b ? "a is greater" : "b is greater or equal";
}
```
---

# Multiple Conditional (Ternary) Operator
In the previous challenge, you used a single conditional operator. You can also chain them together to check for multiple conditions.

The following function uses `if`, `else if`, and `else` statements to check multiple conditions:

```js
function findGreaterOrEqual(a, b) {
  if (a === b) {
    return "a and b are equal";
  }
  else if (a > b) {
    return "a is greater";
  }
  else {
    return "b is greater";
  }
}
```

The above function can be re-written using multiple conditional operators:

```js
function findGreaterOrEqual(a, b){
	return a === b ? "a and b are eqaul" 
	: a > b ? "a is greater"
	: "b is greater"
}
```
It is considered best practice to format multiple conditional operators such that each condition is on a separate line, as shown above. Using multiple conditional operators without proper indentation may make your code hard to read. For example:

```js
function findGreaterOrEqual(a, b) {
  return (a === b) ? "a and b are equal" : (a > b) ? "a is greater" : "b is greater";
}
```
---




