# Object
Object are similar to [[6. Array|arrays]], except that instead of using indexes to access and modify theri data, we access the data in objects through what are called ```properties```.

Objects are useful for storing data in a structured way, and can represent real world objects, like a cat.

```js
const cat = {
	"name": "Whiskers",
	"legs": 4,
	"tails": 1,
	"enimies": ["Water", "Dogs"]
};
```
In this example, all the properties are stored as strings, such as `name`, `legs`, and `tails`. 

However, we can also use numbers as properties. We can even omit the quotes for single-word [[5. String|string]] properties, as follows:

```js
const obj = {
	make: "Ford",
	5: "five",
	"model": "focus"
};
```
---

# Accessing Object Properties 
## Dot Notation
There are two way to access the properties of an object: dot notation (`.`) and bracket notation (`[]`), similar to an array.

Dot notation is what we used when we know the name of the property we're try to access ahead of time.

```js
const obj = {
	prop1: "val1",
	prop2: "val2"
};

const prop1Val = obj.prop1;
const prop2Val = obj.prop2;
```
```pop1val``` would have a value of the [[5. String|string]] ```val1```, and ```prop2val``` would have a value of the [[5. String|string]] `val2`.

## Bracket Notation
The second way to access the properties of an object is bracket notation (`[]`). If the property of the object we are trying to access has a space in its name, we will need to use bracket notation.

```js
const obj = {
	"space name": "kirk",
	"More Space": "Spock",
	"NoSapce": "USS"
};

obj["space name"];
obj["More space"];
obk["NoSpace"];
```

## Variables
Another use of bracket notation on objects is to access a property which is stored as the value of a variable. This can be very useful for iterating through on object's properties or when accessing a look up table.

```js
const dogs = {
	Fido: "Mutt",
	Hunter: "Doberman",
	Snoopie: "Beagle"
};

const myDog = "Hunter";
const myBreed = dogs[myDog];
console.log(myBreed);
```
The [[5. String|string]] ```Doberman``` would be displayed in the console.

Another way you can use this concept is when the property's name is collected dynamically during the program execution, as follows:

```js
const obj = {
	propName: "john";
};

function propPerfix(str) {
	const s = "prop";
	return s + str;
}

const someProp = propPerfix("Name");
console.log(someObj[someProp]);
```
```someProp``` would have a value of the [[5. String|string]] ```propName```, and the [[5. String|string]] ```john``` would be displayed in the [[1. console|console]].

---

# Updating Object Properties
We can update its properties at any time just like you would update any other variable. We can use either dot or bracket notation to update.

```
const ourDog = {
	"name": "Camper",
	"leg": 4,
	"tails": 1,
	"friends": ["everything!"];
};
```
We can update the object's name property: `ourDog.name = "Happy Camper";`or `ourDog["name"] = "Happy Camper";` Now when we evaluate `ourDog.name`, instead of getting `Camper`, we'll get his new name, `Happy Camper`.

---

# Add New Properties
We can add new Properties to existing [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] objects the same way we would modify them. Here's how we would add a `bark` property to `ourDog`:

```js
ourDog.bark = "bow-wow";
```

or

``` js
ourDog[bark] = "bow-wow";
```
---

# Delete Properties
We can also delete properties from objects like this:

``` js
delete ourDog.bark;
```

Example: 

```js
const ourDog = {
  "name": "Camper",
  "legs": 4,
  "tails": 1,
  "friends": ["everything!"],
  "bark": "bow-wow"
};

delete ourDog.bark;
```

After the last line shown above, `ourDog` looks like:

```js
{
  "name": "Camper",
  "legs": 4,
  "tails": 1,
  "friends": ["everything!"]
}
```
---

# Using Objects for lookups
Objects can be thought of as a key/value storage, like a dictionary. If we have tabular data, we can use an object to lookup values rather than a ```switch``` statement or an ```if/else``` chain. This is most useful when we know that our input data is limited to a certain range.

```js
const alpha = {
  1:"Z",
  2:"Y",
  3:"X",
  4:"W",
  ...
  24:"C",
  25:"B",
  26:"A"
};

alpha[2];
alpha[24];

const value = 2;
alpha[value];
```
`alpha[2]` is the [[5. String|string]] `Y`, `alpha[24]` is the [[5. String|string]] `C`, and `alpha[value]` is the [[5. String|string]] `Y`.

---

# Testing Objects for Properties
Sometimes it is useful to check if the property of a given object exists or not. We can use the ```.hasOwnProperty(propname)``` method of objects to determine if that object has the given property name. ```.hasOwnProperty()``` return ```ture``` or ```false``` is the property is found or not.

```js
const obj = {
	top: "hat",
	bottom: "pants"
};

obj.hasOwnProperty("top");
obj.hasOwnProperty("midle");
```
The first ```hasOwnProperty``` return ```true```, while the second returns ```false```.

---

# **Manipulating Complex Objects**
Sometimes we may want to store data in a flexible Data Structure. A [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] object is one way to handle flexible data. They allow for arbitrary combinations of strings, numbers, booleans, array, [[7. Function|functions]], and objects.

Here's an example of a complex data structure:

```js
const ourMusic = [
  {
    "artist": "Daft Punk",
    "title": "Homework",
    "release_year": 1997,
    "formats": [ 
      "CD", 
      "Cassette", 
      "LP"
    ],
    "gold": true
  }
];
```
This is an array which contains one object inside. The object has various pieces of metadata about an album. It also has a nested `formats` array. If we want to add more album records, we can do this by adding records to the top level array. Objects hold data in a property, which has a key-value format. In the example above, `"artist": "Daft Punk"` is a property that has a key of `artist` and a value of `Daft Punk`. [[[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] Object Notation](http://www.json.org/) or `JSON` is a related data interchange format used to store data.

```json
{
  "artist": "Daft Punk",
  "title": "Homework",
  "release_year": 1997,
  "formats": [ 
    "CD",
    "Cassette",
    "LP"
  ],
  "gold": true
}
```
---

# Accessing Nested Objects 
The sub-properties of objects can be accessed by chaining together the dot or bracket notation.

```js
const ourStorage = {
  "desk": {
    "drawer": "stapler"
  },
  "cabinet": {
    "top drawer": { 
      "folder1": "a file",
      "folder2": "secrets"
    },
    "bottom drawer": "soda"
  }
};

ourStroage.cabinet["top drawer"].folder2;
ourStroage.desk.drawer;
```
`ourStorage.cabinet["top drawer"].folder2` would be the [[5. String|string]] `secrets`, and `ourStorage.desk.drawer` would be the [[5. String|string]] `stapler`.

---
# Accessing Nested [[6. Array|Arrays]]
s. Similar to accessing nested objects, array bracket notation can be chained to access nested [[6. Array|arrays]].

```js
const ourPets = [
  {
    animalType: "cat",
    names: [
      "Meowzer",
      "Fluffy",
      "Kit-Cat"
    ]
  },
  {
    animalType: "dog",
    names: [
      "Spot",
      "Bowser",
      "Frankie"
    ]
  }
];

ourPets[0].name[1];
ourPets[1].name[2];
```

---

# **Iterate Through the Keys of an Object with a for...in Statement**
Sometimes you may need to iterate through all the keys within an object. This requires a specific syntax in [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] called a for...in statement. For our `users` object, this could look like:

```js
for (let user in users) {
  console.log(user);
}
```

This would log `Alan`, `Jeff`, `Sarah`, and `Ryan` - each value on its own line.

In this statement, we defined a variable `user`, and as you can see, this variable was reset during each iteration to each of the object's keys as the statement looped through the object, resulting in each user's name being printed to the [[1. console|console]].

**NOTE:** Objects do not maintain an ordering to stored keys like [[6. Array|arrays]] do; thus a key's position on an object, or the relative order in which it appears, is irrelevant when referencing or accessing that key.

```js
const users = {
	Alan: {
	online: false
	},
	Jeff: {
	online: true
	},
	Sarah: {
	online: false
	}
}
 
function countOnline(usersObj) {
	let count = 0;
	for(let user in usersObj){
	usersObj[user].online ? count++ : 0;
	}
	return count;
}

console.log(countOnline(users));
```

---

# Generate an Array of All Object Keys with Object.keys()
We can also generate an array which contains all the keys stored in an object using the `Object.keys()` method and passing in an object as the argument. This will return an array with strings representing each property in the object. Again, there will be no specific order to the entries in the array.

```js
let users = {
	Alan: {
	age: 27,
	online: false
	},
	
	Jeff: {
	age: 32,
	online: true
	},
	
	Sarah: {
	age: 48,
	online: false
	},
	
	Ryan: {
	age: 19,
	online: true
	}

};

Object.keys(users); //[ 'Alan', 'Jeff', 'Sarah', 'Ryan' ]
```
---

# Create a Method on an Object
Objects can have a special type of property, called a method.

Methods are properties that are [[7. Function|functions]]. This adds different behavior to an object. Here is the `duck` example with a method:

```js
let duck = {
  name: "Aflac",
  numLegs: 2,
  sayName: function() {return "The name of this duck is " + duck.name + ".";}
};
duck.sayName();
```

The example adds the `sayName` method, which is a function that returns a sentence giving the name of the `duck`. Notice that the method accessed the `name` property in the return statement using `duck.name`. The next challenge will cover another way to do this.

## Make Code More Reusable with the this Keyword

The last challenge introduced a method to the `duck` object. It used `duck.name` dot notation to access the value for the `name` property within the return statement:

```js
sayName: function() {return "The name of this duck is " + duck.name + ".";}
```

While this is a valid way to access the object's property, there is a pitfall here. If the variable name changes, any code referencing the original name would need to be updated as well. In a short object definition, it isn't a problem, but if an object has many references to its properties there is a greater chance for error.

A way to avoid these issues is with the `this` keyword:

```js
let duck = {
  name: "Aflac",
  numLegs: 2,
  sayName: function() {return "The name of this duck is " + this.name + ".";}
};
```

`this` is a deep topic, and the above example is only one way to use it. In the current context, `this` refers to the object that the method is associated with: `duck`. If the object's name is changed to `mallard`, it is not necessary to find all the references to `duck` in the code. It makes the code reusable and easier to read.

---

