# Array Data Structure
The below is an example of the simplest implementation of an array data structure. This is known as a one-dimensional array, meaning it only has one level, or that it does not have any other [[6. Array|arrays]] nested within it. Notice it contains booleans, strings, and numbers, among other valid [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] data types:

```js
let simpleArray = ['one', 2, 'three', true, false, undefined, null];
console.log(simpleArray.length);
```

The `console.log` call displays `7`.

All [[6. Array|arrays]] have a length property, which as shown above, can be very easily accessed with the syntax `Array.length`. A more complex implementation of an array can be seen below. This is known as a multi-dimensional array, or an array that contains other [[6. Array|arrays]]. Notice that this array also contains [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] objects, which we will examine very closely in our next section, but for now, all you need to know is that [[6. Array|arrays]] are also capable of storing complex objects.

```js
let complexArray = [
  [
    {
      one: 1,
      two: 2
    },
    {
      three: 3,
      four: 4
    }
  ],
  [
    {
      a: "a",
      b: "b"
    },
    {
      c: "c",
      d: "d"
    }
  ]
];
```

---

# Access an Array's Contents Using Bracket Notation

The fundamental feature of any data structure is, of course, the ability to not only store data, but to be able to retrieve that data on command. So, now that we've learned how to create an array, let's begin to think about how we can access that array's information.

When we define a simple array as seen below, there are 3 items in it:

```js
let ourArray = ["a", "b", "c"];
```

In an array, each array item has an index. This index doubles as the position of that item in the array, and how you reference it. However, it is important to note, that JavaScript arrays are zero-indexed, meaning that the first element of an array is actually at the _**zeroth**_position, not the first. In order to retrieve an element from an array we can enclose an index in brackets and append it to the end of an array, or more commonly, to a variable which references an array object. This is known as bracket notation. For example, if we want to retrieve the `a` from `ourArray` and assign it to a variable, we can do so with the following code:

```js
let ourVariable = ourArray[0];
```

Now `ourVariable` has the value of `a`.

In addition to accessing the value associated with an index, you can also _set_ an index to a value using the same notation:

```js
ourArray[1] = "not b anymore";
```

Using bracket notation, we have now reset the item at index 1 from the string `b`, to `not b anymore`. Now `ourArray` is `["a", "not b anymore", "c"]`.

---

# Add Items to an Array with push() and unshift()

An array's length, like the data types it can contain, is not fixed. Arrays can be defined with a length of any number of elements, and elements can be added or removed over time; in other words, arrays are mutable. In this challenge, we will look at two methods with which we can programmatically modify an array: `Array.push()` and `Array.unshift()`.

Both methods take one or more elements as parameters and add those elements to the array the method is being called on; the `push()` method adds elements to the end of an array, and `unshift()` adds elements to the beginning. Consider the following:

```js
let twentyThree = 'XXIII';
let romanNumerals = ['XXI', 'XXII'];

romanNumerals.unshift('XIX', 'XX');
```

`romanNumerals` would have the value `['XIX', 'XX', 'XXI', 'XXII']`.

```js
romanNumerals.push(twentyThree);
```

`romanNumerals` would have the value `['XIX', 'XX', 'XXI', 'XXII', 'XXIII']`. Notice that we can also pass variables, which allows us even greater flexibility in dynamically modifying our array's data.

---

# Remove Items from an Array with pop() and shift()

Both `push()` and `unshift()` have corresponding methods that are nearly functional opposites: `pop()` and `shift()`. As you may have guessed by now, instead of adding, `pop()` _removes_ an element from the end of an array, while `shift()` removes an element from the beginning. The key difference between `pop()` and `shift()` and their cousins `push()` and `unshift()`, is that neither method takes parameters, and each only allows an array to be modified by a single element at a time.

Let's take a look:

```js
let greetings = ['whats up?', 'hello', 'see ya!'];

greetings.pop();
```

`greetings` would have the value `['whats up?', 'hello']`.

```js
greetings.shift();
```

`greetings` would have the value `['hello']`.

We can also return the value of the removed element with either method like this:

```js
let popped = greetings.pop();
```

`greetings` would have the value `[]`, and `popped` would have the value `hello`.