# Add Key-Value Pairs to JavaScript Objects

At their most basic, objects are just collections of key-value pairs. In other words, they are pieces of data (values) mapped to unique identifiers called properties (keys). Take a look at an example:

```js
const tekkenCharacter = {
  player: 'Hwoarang',
  fightingStyle: 'Tae Kwon Doe',
  human: true
};
```

The above code defines a Tekken video game character object called `tekkenCharacter`. It has three properties, each of which map to a specific value. If you want to add an additional property, such as "origin", it can be done by assigning `origin` to the object:

```js
tekkenCharacter.origin = 'South Korea';
```

This uses dot notation. If you were to observe the `tekkenCharacter` object, it will now include the `origin` property. Hwoarang also had distinct orange hair. You can add this property with bracket notation by doing:

```js
tekkenCharacter['hair color'] = 'dyed orange';
```

Bracket notation is required if your property has a space in it or if you want to use a variable to name the property. In the above case, the property is enclosed in quotes to denote it as a string and will be added exactly as shown. Without quotes, it will be evaluated as a variable and the name of the property will be whatever value the variable is. Here's an example with a variable:

```js
const eyes = 'eye color';

tekkenCharacter[eyes] = 'brown';
```

After adding all the examples, the object will look like this:

```js
{
  player: 'Hwoarang',
  fightingStyle: 'Tae Kwon Doe',
  human: true,
  origin: 'South Korea',
  'hair color': 'dyed orange',
  'eye color': 'brown'
};
```

----

# **Modify an Object Nested Within an Object**

Now let's take a look at a slightly more complex object. Object properties can be nested to an arbitrary depth, and their values can be any type of data supported by JavaScript, including arrays and even other objects. Consider the following:

```js
let nestedObject = {
  id: 28802695164,
  date: 'December 31, 2016',
  data: {
    totalUsers: 99,
    online: 80,
    onlineStatus: {
      active: 67,
      away: 13,
      busy: 8
    }
  }
};
```

`nestedObject` has three properties: `id` (value is a number), `date` (value is a string), and `data` (value is an object with its nested structure). While structures can quickly become complex, we can still use the same notations to access the information we need. To assign the value `10` to the `busy` property of the nested `onlineStatus` object, we use dot notation to reference the property:

```js
nestedObject.data.onlineStatus.busy = 10;
```

---

# Access Property Names with Bracket Notation

In the first object challenge we mentioned the use of bracket notation as a way to access property values using the evaluation of a variable. For instance, imagine that our `foods`object is being used in a program for a supermarket cash register. We have some function that sets the `selectedFood` and we want to check our `foods` object for the presence of that food. This might look like:

```js
let selectedFood = getCurrentFood(scannedItem);
let inventory = foods[selectedFood];
```

This code will evaluate the value stored in the `selectedFood` variable and return the value of that key in the `foods` object, or `undefined` if it is not present. Bracket notation is very useful because sometimes object properties are not known before runtime or we need to access them in a more dynamic way.

---

# Use the delete Keyword to Remove Object Properties

Now you know what objects are and their basic features and advantages. In short, they are key-value stores which provide a flexible, intuitive way to structure data, _**and**_, they provide very fast lookup time. Throughout the rest of these challenges, we will describe several common operations you can perform on objects so you can become comfortable applying these useful data structures in your programs.

In earlier challenges, we have both added to and modified an object's key-value pairs. Here we will see how we can _remove_ a key-value pair from an object.

Let's revisit our `foods` object example one last time. If we wanted to remove the `apples`key, we can remove it by using the `delete` keyword like this:

```js
delete foods.apples;
```


---

# Check if an Object has a Property
Now we can add, modify, and remove keys from objects. But what if we just wanted to know if an object has a specific property? JavaScript provides us with two different ways to do this. One uses the `hasOwnProperty()` method and the other uses the `in` keyword. If we have an object `users` with a property of `Alan`, we could check for its presence in either of the following ways:

```js
users.hasOwnProperty('Alan');
'Alan' in users;
```

Both of these would return `true`.

---

