# **Match a Literal [[5. String|String]] with Different Possibilities**
We can search for multiple patterns using the `alternation` or `OR` operator: `|`.

This operator matches patterns either before or after it. For example, if we wanted to match the strings `yse` or `no` or `maybe`, the regex we want is `/yes|no|maybey/`.

---

# Ignore Case While Matching
Case (or sometimes letter case) is the difference between uppercase letters and lowercase letters. Examples of uppercase are `A`, `B`, and `C`. Examples of lowercase are `a`, `b`, and `c`.

You can match both cases using what is called a flag. There are other flags but here you'll focus on the flag that ignore case - the `i` flag. You can use it by appending it to the regex. An example of using this flag is `/ignorecase/i`. This regex can match the strings `ignorecase`, `igNoreCase`, and `IgnoreCase`

---

Find More than the First Match
To search or extract a pattern more than once, you can use the `g` flag.

```js
let repeatRegex = /Repeat/g;
testStr.match(repeatRegex);
```

---

# **Match Anything with [[Wildcard]] Period**
We can save time using the [[wildcard]] character: `.`

The [[wildcard]] character `.` will match any one character. The [[wildcard]] is also called `dot` and `period`. We can use the [[wildcard]] character just like any other character in the regex. For example, if we wanted to match `hug`, `hub`, `hut`, and `hum`, we can use the regex `/hu.` to match all four words.

```js
let humStr = "i'll hum a song";
let hugStr = "Bear hug";
let huRegex = /hu./;
huRegex.test(humStr);
huRegex.test(hugStr);
```
Both of these `test` calls would return `true`.

---

# [""]Match Single Character with Multiple Possibilities
We can search for a literal pattern with some flexibility with `character classes`. Character classes allow us to define a group of characters we wish to match by placing them inside square (`[` and `]`) brackets.

For example we want to match `bag`, `big`, and `bug` but not `bog`. We can create the regex `/b[aiu]g/` to do this. The `[aiu]` is a character class that will only match the characters `a`, `i`, or `u`;

```js
let bigStr = "big";
let bagStr = "bag";
let bugStr = "bug";
let bogStr = "bog";
let bgRegex = /b[aiut]g/;

bigStr.match(bgRegex);
bagStr.match(bgRegex);
bugStr.match(bgRegex);
bogStr.match(bgRegex);
```
In order, the four match calls would return the values  `["big"]`, `["bag"]`, `["bug"]`, and `null`.

---

# [a-9] Match Letters of the Alphabet and Numbers
Inside a character set, we can define a range of characters to match using a hyphen character: `-`.

For example, to match lowercase letters `a` through `e` we would use `[a-e]`.

```js
let catStr = "cat";
let batStr = "bat";
let matStr = "mat";
let bgRegex = "/[a-e]at/"
catStr.match(bgRegex);
batStr.match(bgRegex);
matStr.match(bgRegex);
```

In order, the three `match` calls would return the values `["cat"]`, `["bat"]`, and `null`.

For example, `/[0-5]/` matches any number between `0` and `5`, including the `0` and `5`.

```js
let jennyStr = "Jenny8675309";
let myRegex = /[a-z0-9]/ig;
jennyStr.match(myRegex);
```
---

# ^ Match Single Characters Not Specified
We could also create a set of characters that we do not want to match. These types of character sets are called *negated character sets*.

To create a negated character set, we place a caret character (`^`) after the opening bracket and before the characters we do not want to match.

For example, `/[^aeiou]gi` matches all characters that are not a vowel. Note that characters like `.`, `!`, `[`, `@`, `/` and white space are matched - the negated vowel character set only excludes the vowel characters.

---

# + Match Character that Occur One or More Times
We can use the `+` character to check if that is the case. Remember, the character or pattern has to be present consecutively. That is, the character has to repeat one after the other.

For example, `/a+/g` would find one match in `abc` and return `["a"]`. Because of the `+`, it would also find a single match in `aabc` and return `["aa"]`.

If it were instead checking the [[5. String|string]] `abab`, it would find two matches and return `["a", "a"]` because the `a` characters are not in a row - there is a `b` between them. Finally, since there is no `a` in the [[5. String|string]] `bcd`, it wouldn't find a match.

---

# * Match Characters that Occur Zero or More Times
There's also an option that matches characters that occur zero or more times. The character to do this is the asterisk or star: `*`.

```js
let soccerWord = "gooooooooal!";
let gPhrase = "gut feeling";
let oPhrase = "over the moon";
let goRegex = /go*/;
soccerWord.match(goRegex);
gPhrase.match(goRegex);
oPhrase.match(goRegex);
```
In order, the three `match` calls would return the values `["goooooooo"]`, `["g"]`, and `null`.

---

# Find Characters with Lazy Matching
In regular expressions, a greedy match finds the longest possible part of a [[5. String|string]] that fits the regex pattern and returns it as a match. The alternative is called a lazy match, which finds the smallest possible part of the [[5. String|string]] that satisfies the regex pattern.

We can apply the regex `/t[a-z]*i` to [[5. String|string]] `"titanic"`. This regex is basically a pattern that starts with `t`, end with `i` , and has some letters in between.

Regular expressions are by default greedy, so the match would return `["titani"]`. It finds the largest sub-[[5. String|string]] possible to fit the pattern.

However, we can use the `?` character to change it to lazy matching. `"titanic"` matched against the adjusted regex of `/t[a-z]*?i` returns `["ti"]` 

**Note:** Parsing [[Basic HTML|HTML]] with regular expressions should be avoided, but pattern matching an [[Basic HTML|HTML]] [[5. String|string]] with regular expressions is completely fine.

```js
let text = "<h1>Winter is coming</h1>";
let myRegex = /<.*?>/; 
let result = text.match(myRegex);
```
Return the [[Basic HTML|HTML]] tag `<h1>`:

---

# **^ Match Beginning [[5. String|String]] Patterns**
used the caret character (`^`) inside a character set to create a negated character set in the form `[^thingsThatWillNotBeMatched]`. Outside of a character set, the caret is used to search for patterns at the beginning of strings.

```js
let firstString = "Ricky is first and can be found.";
let firstRegex = /^Ricky/;
firstRegex.test(firstString);
let notFirst = "You can't find Ricky now.";
firstRegex.test(notFirst);
```
The first `test` call would return `true`, while the second would return `false`.

---

# $ Match Ending [[5. String|String]] Patterns
We can search the end of strings using the dollar sign character `$` at the end of the regex.

```js
let theEding = "This is a never ending stroy";
let storyRegex = /story$/;
storyRegx.test(theEnding);
let noEnding = "Sometiems a stroy will have to end";
storyRegex.test(noEnding);
```
The first `test` call would return `true`, while the second would return `false`.

---

# \s Match Whitespace
We can search for whitespace using `\s`, which is lowercase `s`. This pattern not only matches whitespace, but also carriage return, tab, form feed, and new line characters. We can think of it as similar to the character class `[ \r\t\f\n\v]`.

```js
let whiteSpcae = "Whitespace. Whitespace everywhere!"
let spaceRegex = /\s/g;
whileSpace.match(spaceRegex);
```
This `match` call would return `[" ", " "]`.

---

# Specify Upper and Lower Number of Matches
Recall that you use the plus sign `+` to look for one or more characters and the asterisk `*`to look for zero or more characters. These are convenient but sometimes you want to match a certain range of patterns.

You can specify the lower and upper number of patterns with quantity specifiers. Quantity specifiers are used with curly brackets (`{` and `}`). You put two numbers between the curly brackets - for the lower and upper number of patterns.

For example, to match only the letter `a` appearing between `3` and `5` times in the [[5. String|string]] `ah`, your regex would be `/a{3,5}h/`.

```js
let A4 = "aaaah";
let A2 = "aah";
let multipleA = /a{3,5}h/;
multipleA.test(A4);
multipleA.test(A2);
```

The first `test` call would return `true`, while the second would return `false`.

---

# **Specify Only the Lower Number of Matches**
We can specify the lower and upper number of patterns with quantity specifiers using curly brackets. Sometimes you only want to specify the lower number of patterns with no upper limit.

To only specify the lower number of patterns, keep the first number followed by a comma.

For example, to match only the [[5. String|string]] `hah` with the letter `a` appearing at least `3` times, your regex would be `/ha{3,}h/`.

```js
let A4 = "haaaah";
let A2 = "haah";
let A100 = "h" + "a".repeat(100) + "h";
let multipleA = /ha{3,}h/;
multipleA.test(A4);
multipleA.test(A2);
multipleA.test(A100);
```

In order, the three `test` calls would return `true`, `false`, and `true`.

---

# **Specify Exact Number of Matches**
We can specify the lower and upper number of patterns with quantity specifiers using curly brackets. Sometimes you only want a specific number of matches.

To specify a certain number of patterns, just have that one number between the curly brackets.

For example, to match only the word `hah` with the letter `a` `3` times, your regex would be `/ha{3}h/`.

```js
let A4 = "haaaah";
let A3 = "haaah";
let A100 = "h" + "a".repeat(100) + "h";
let multipleHA = /ha{3}h/;
multipleHA.test(A4);
multipleHA.test(A3);
multipleHA.test(A100);
```
In order, the three `test` calls would return `false`, `true`, and `false`.

---

# Check for All or None
You can specify the possible existence of an element with a question mark, `?`. This checks for zero or one of the preceding element. You can think of this symbol as saying the previous element is optional.

For example, there are slight differences in American and British English and you can use the question mark to match both spellings.

```js
let american = "color";
let british = "colour";
let rainbowRegex= /colou?r/;
rainbowRegex.test(american);
rainbowRegex.test(british);
```
Both uses of the `test` method would return `true`.

---

# **Positive and Negative Lookahead**
*Lookahead* are patterns that tell JavaScript to look-ahead our string to check for patterns further along. This can be useful when we want to search for multiple patterns over the same string. 

There are two kinds of lookaheads: positive lookahead and negative lookahead.

A positive lookahead will look to make sure the element in the search pattern is there, but won't actually match it. A positive lookahead is used as `(?=...)` where `...` us the required part that is not matched.

On the other hand, a negative lookahead will look to make sure the element in the search pattern is not there, A negative lookahead is used as `(?!...)` where the `...` is the pattern that us do not want to be there. The rest of the pattern is returned if the negative lookahead part is not present. 

Lookaheads are a bit confusing but some examples will help.

```js
let quit = "qu";
let noquit = "qt";
let quRegex= /q(?=u)/;
let qRegex = /q(?!u)/;
quit.match(quRegex);
noquit.match(qRegex);
```
Both of these `match` calls would return `["q"]`.

A more practical use of lookaheads is to check two or more patterns in one string. Here is a (naively) simple password checker that looks for between 3 and 6 characters and at least one number:

```js
let password = "abc123";
let checkPass = /(?=\w{3,6})(?=\D*\d)/;
checkPass.test(password);
```

Use lookaheads in the `pwRegex` to match passwords that are greater than 5 characters long, and have two consecutive digits.

```js
let pwRegex = /(?=\w{6,})(?=\w*\d{2,})/i;
```

# **Check For Mixed Grouping of Characters**
Sometimes we want to check for groups of characters using a Regular Expression and to achieve that we use parentheses `()`.

If we want to find either `Penguin` or `Pumpkin` in a string, we can use the following Regular Expression: `/P(engu|umpk)in/g`

Then check whether the desired string groups are in the test string by using the `test()`method.

```js
let testStr = "Pumpkin";
let testRegex = /P(engu|umpk)in/;
testRegex.test(testStr);
```
The `test` method here would return `true`.

---

# Capture Groups
## Reuse Patterns
If we want to match a word that occurs multiple time like this.

```js
let repeatStr = "row row row your boat";
```

We can use `/row row row/`, but what if we don't know the specific word repeated? *Capture groups* can used to find repeated substrings.

Capture groups are constructed by enclosing the regex pattern to be captured in parentheses. In this case, the goal is to capture a word consisting of alphanumeric characters so the capture group will be `\w+` enclose by parentheses: `/(\w+)/`.

The substring matched by the group is saved to a temporary "variable", which can be accessed within the same regex using a backslash and the number of the capture group (e.g. `\1`). Capture groups are automatically numbered by the position of their opening parentheses (left to right), starting at 1.

``` js
let repeatRegex = /(\w+) \1 \1/;
repeatRegex.test(repeatStr); // Returns true
repeatStr.match(repeatRegex); // Returns ["row row row", "row"]
```
Using the `.match()` method on a string will return an array with the matched substring, along with its captured groups.

## Search and Replace
Searching is useful. We can make searching even more powerful when it also replace the text we match.

We can search and replace text in string using `.repalce()` on a string. The input for `.replace()` is first the regex pattern we want to search for. The second parameter is the string to replace the match or a function to do something.

```js
let wrongText = "The sky is sliver.";
let silverRegex = /sliver/;
wrongText.rplace(silverRegex, "blue");
```
The `replace` call would return the string `The sky is blue`.

We can also access capture groups in the replacement string with dollar sign (`$`).

```js
"one two three".replace(/(w+)\s(w+)\s(w+)/, '$3 $2 $1');
```
The `replace` call would return the string `three two one`.