
# \w Match All Letters and Numbers
Using character classes, you were able to search for all letters of the alphabet with `[a-z]`. This kind of character class is common enough that there is a shortcut for it, although it includes a few extra characters as well.

The closet character class in [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] to match the alphabet is `\w`. This shortcut is equal to `[A-Za-z0-9_]`. This character class matches upper and lowercase letters plus numbers. Note, this character class also includes the underscore character (`_`).

```js
let longHand = /[A-Za-z0-9_]+/;
let shortHand = /\w+/;
let numbers = "42";
let varNames = "important_var";
longHand.test(numbers);
shortHand.test(numbers);
longHand.test(varNames);
shortHand.test(varNames);
```

All four these `test` calls would return `true`.
These shortcut character classes are also known as shorthand character classes.

---

# **Match Everything But Letters and Numbers**
We  can search for the opposite of the `\w` with `\W`. Note, the opposite pattern uses a capital letter. This shortcut is the same as `[^A-Za-z0-9_]`.

```js
let shortHand = /\W/;
let numbers = "42%";
let sentence = "Coding!";
numbers.match(shortHand);
sentence.match(shortHand);
```

The first `match` call would return the value `["%"]` and the second would return `["!"]`

---

# **Match All Numbers**

You've learned shortcuts for common [[5. String|string]] patterns like alphanumerics. Another common pattern is looking for just digits or numbers.

The shortcut to look for digit characters is `\d`, with a lowercase `d`. This is equal to the character class `[0-9]`, which looks for a single character of any number between zero and nine.

---

# **Match All Non-Numbers**

The last challenge showed how to search for digits using the shortcut `\d` with a lowercase `d`. You can also search for non-digits using a similar shortcut that uses an uppercase `D` instead.

The shortcut to look for non-digit characters is `\D`. This is equal to the character class `[^0-9]`, which looks for a single character that is not a number between zero and nine.

---

# **Match Non-Whitespace Characters**
Search for non-whitespace using `\S`, which is an uppercase `s`. This pattern will not match whitespace, carriage return, tab, form feed, and new line characters. You can think of it being similar to the character class `[^ \r\t\f\n\v]`.

```js
let whiteSpace = "Whitespace. Whitespace everywhere!"
let nonSpaceRegex = /\S/g;
whiteSpace.match(nonSpaceRegex).length;
```
The value returned by the `.length` method would be `32`.

---

