---
aliases: [constructor , 10. Constructor Function]
---

# **Constructor Function**
ES6 provides a new syntax to create objects, using the class keyword.

It should be noted that the `class` syntax is just syntax, and not a full-fledged class-based implementation of an object-oriented paradigm, unlike in languages such as Java, Python, Ruby, etc.

In ES5, we usually define a `constructor` function and use the `new` keyword to instantiate an object.

```js
var SpaceShuttle = function(targetPlanet){
  this.targetPlanet = targetPlanet;
}
var zeus = new SpaceShuttle('Jupiter');
```

The `class` syntax simply replaces the `constructor` function creation:

```js
class SpaceShuttle {
  constructor(targetPlanet) {
    this.targetPlanet = targetPlanet;
  }
}
const zeus = new SpaceShuttle('Jupiter');
```

It should be noted that the `class` keyword declares a new function, to which a constructor is added. This constructor is invoked when `new` is called to create a new object.

**Note:** UpperCamelCase should be used by convention for ES6 class names, as in `SpaceShuttle` used above.

The `constructor` method is a special method for creating and initializing an object created with a class. 

# **Getters and Setters**
We can obtain values from an object and set the value of property within an object. 

Getter [[7. Function|functions]] are meant to simply return (get) the value of an object's private variable to the user without the user directly accessing the private variable.

Setter [[7. Function|functions]] are meant to modify (set) the value of an object's private variable based on the value passed into the setter function. This change could involve calculations, or even overwriting the previous value completely.

```js
class Book {
	constructor(author) {
		this.author = author;
	}
	// getter
	get writer(){
		return this.author;
	}
	// seeter
	set writer(p_author){
		this.author = p_author;
	}
}

const novel = new Book('anonymous');
console.log(novel.writer);
novel.writer = 'newAuthor';
console.log(novel.writer);
```
The [[1. console|console]] would display the strings `anonymous` and `newAuthor`.

Notice the syntax used to invoke the getter and setter. They do not even look like [[7. Function|functions]]. Getters and setters are important because they hide internal implementation details.