# Create a Module Script
[[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] started with a small role to play on otherwise mostly [[Basic HTML|HTML]] web. Today, it's huge, and some websites are build almost entirely with [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]]. In order to make [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] more modular, clean, and maintainable; ES6 introduced a way to easily share code among JavaScript files. This involves exporting parts of a file for use in one or more other files, and importing the parts we need, where need to create a script in our [[Basic HTML|HTML]] document wit a `type`  of  `module`.	Here is an example:

```html
<script type="module" src="filename.js"></script>
```

A script that uses this `module` type can now use the `import` and `export` features.

---

# Use export to Share a Code Block
Imagine a file called `math_functions.js` that contains several [[7. Function|functions]] related to mathematical operations. One of them is stored in a variable, `add`, that takes in two numbers and returns their sum. We want to use this function in several different [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] files. In order to share it with these other files, we first need to `export` it.

```js
export const add = (x, y) => {
	return x + y;
}
```

The above is a common way to export a single function, but we can achieve the same thing like this:
```js
const add = (x, y) => {
	return x + y;
}
export { add };
```

When we export a variable or function, we can import it in another file and use it without havering to rewrite the code. We can export multiple things by repeating the first example for each thing we want to export, or by placing them all in the export statement of the second example, lie this:

```js
export { add, subtract };
```

---

# Reuse JavaScript Code Using import
`import` allows us to choose which parts of a file or module to load. In the pervious lesson, the examples exported `add` from the `math_functions.js` file. Here's how we can import it to use in another file:

```js
import { add } from './math_functions.js';
```

Here, `import` will find `add` in `math_functions.js`, import just that function for us to use, and ignore the rest. The `./` tells the import to look for the `math_functions.js` file in the same folder as the current file. The relative file path (`./`) and file extension (`./`) are required when using import in this way.

We can import more than one item from the file by adding them in the `import` statement like this:

```js
import { add, subtract } from './math_functions.js'
```

---

# Using * to Import Everything
Suppose you have a file and you wish to import all of its contents into the current file. This can be done with the `import * as` syntax. Here's an example where the contents of a file named `math_functions.js` are imported into a file in the same directory:

```js
import * as myMathModule from "./math_functions.js";
```

The above `import` statement will create an object called `myMathModule`. This is just a variable name, you can name it anything. The object will contain all of the exports from `math_functions.js` in it, so you can access the functions like you would any other object property. Here's how you can use the `add` and `subtract` functions that were imported:

```js
myMathModule.add(2,3);
myMathModule.subtract(5,3);
```

--- 

# Create an Export Fallback with export default
There is another `export` syntax we need to know, known as *export default*. Usually we will use this syntax if only one value is being exported from a file. It is also used to create a fallback value for a file or module.

Below are examples using `export default`:

```js
export default function add(x, y) {
	return x + y;
}

export default function(x,y) {
	return x + y;
}
```

---

# Import a Default Export
To Import a default export, we need use a different `import` syntax, In the following example, `add` is the default export of the `math_functions.js` file. Here is how to import it:

``` js
import add from "./math_functions.js"
```

The syntax differs in one key place. The imported value, `add`, is not surrounded by curly braces (`{}`). `add` here is simply a variable name for whatever the default export of the `math_functions.js` file is. You can use any name here when importing a default.
