# Create a Basic [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] Object
Think about things people see every day, like cars, shops, and birds. These are all objects: tangible things people can observe and interact with.

What are some qualities of these objects? A car has wheels. Shops sell items. Birds have wings.

These qualities, or properties, define what makes up an object. Note that similar objects share the same properties, but may have different values for those properties. For example, all cars have wheels, but not all cars have the same number of wheels.

Objects in [[1. JavaScript|JavaScript]] are used to model real-world objects, giving them properties and behavior just like their real-world counterparts. Here's an example using these concepts to create a `duck` object:

```js
let duck = {
  name: "Aflac",
  numLegs: 2
};
```

This `duck` object has two property/value pairs: a `name` of `Aflac` and a `numLegs` of 2.

---

# Create a Method on an Object
Objects can have a special type of property, called a method.

Methods are properties that are [[7. Function|functions]]. This adds different behavior to an object. Here is the `duck` example with a method:

```js
let duck = {
  name: "Aflac",
  numLegs: 2,
  sayName: function() {return "The name of this duck is " + duck.name + ".";}
};
duck.sayName();
```

The example adds the `sayName` method, which is a function that returns a sentence giving the name of the `duck`. Notice that the method accessed the `name` property in the return statement using `duck.name`. The next challenge will cover another way to do this.

---

# Make Code More Reusable with the this Keyword
The last challenge introduced a method to the `duck` object. It used `duck.name` dot notation to access the value for the `name` property within the return statement:

```js
sayName: function() {return "The name of this duck is " + duck.name + ".";}
```

While this is a valid way to access the object's property, there is a pitfall here. If the variable name changes, any code referencing the original name would need to be updated as well. In a short object definition, it isn't a problem, but if an object has many references to its properties there is a greater chance for error.

A way to avoid these issues is with the `this` keyword:

```js
let duck = {
  name: "Aflac",
  numLegs: 2,
  sayName: function() {return "The name of this duck is " + this.name + ".";}
};
```

`this` is a deep topic, and the above example is only one way to use it. In the current context, `this` refers to the object that the method is associated with: `duck`. If the object's name is changed to `mallard`, it is not necessary to find all the references to `duck` in the code. It makes the code reusable and easier to read.


--- 

# instanceof
Anytime a constructor function creates a new object, that object is said to be an instanceof its constructor. JavaScript gives a convenient way to verify this with the `instanceof`operator. `instanceof` allows you to compare an object to a constructor, returning `true`or `false` based on whether or not that object was created with the constructor. Here's an example:

```js
let Bird = function(name, color) {
  this.name = name;
  this.color = color;
  this.numLegs = 2;
}

let crow = new Bird("Alexis", "black");

crow instanceof Bird;
```
This `instanceof` method would return `true`.

If an object is created without using a constructor, `instanceof` will verify that it is not an instance of that constructor:

```js
let canary = {
  name: "Mildred",
  color: "Yellow",
  numLegs: 2
};

canary instanceof Bird;
```
This `instanceof` method would return `false`.

## **Constructor Property**
There is a special `constructor` property located on the object instances `duck` and `beagle` that were created in the previous challenges:

```js
let duck = new Bird();
let beagle = new Dog();

console.log(duck.constructor === Bird); 
console.log(beagle.constructor === Dog);
```
Both of these `console.log` calls would display `true` in the console.

Note that the `constructor` property is a reference to the constructor function that created the instance. The advantage of the `constructor` property is that it's possible to check for this property to find out what kind of object it is. Here's an example of how this could be used:

```js
function joinBirdFraternity(candidate) {
  if (candidate.constructor === Bird) {
    return true;
  } else {
    return false;
  }
}
```
**Note:** Since the `constructor` property can be overwritten (which will be covered in the next two challenges) it’s generally better to use the `instanceof` method to check the type of an object. To fix it, whenever a prototype is manually set to a new object, remember to define the `constructor` property:

```js
Bird.prototype = {
  constructor: Bird,
  numLegs: 2,
  eat: function() {
    console.log("nom nom nom");
  },
  describe: function() {
    console.log("My name is " + this.name); 
  }
};
```

---

