# Stateful Component
We create state in a React component by declaring a `state` property on the component class in its `constructor`. This initializes the component with `state` when it is created. The `state` property must be set to a JavaScript `object`. Declaring it looks like this:

```jsx
this.state = {

}
```

We have access to the `state` object throughout the lief of our component. We can update it, render it in our UI, and pass it as props to child components. The `state` object cam be as complex or as simple as we need it to be. 

**Note** that we must create a class component by extending `React.Component` in order to create `state` like this.

```jsx
class StatefulComponent extends React.Component {
	constructor(props) {
		super(props);
		this.state = {
			name: "terry"
		};
	}
	
	render() {
		return (
		<div>
			<h1>{this.state.name}</h1>
		</div>
		);	
	}
};
```

Note that if we make a component stateful, no other components are aware of its `state`. Its `state` is completely encapsulated, or local to that component, unless you pass state data to a child component as `props`. This notion of encapsulated `state` is very important because it allows us to write certain logic, then have that logic contained and isolated in one place in your code.

---

# Render State in the User Interface Another Way
There is another way to access `state` in a component. In the `render()` method, before the `return` statement, we can write JavaScript directly. For example, we could declare functions, access data from `state` or `props`, perform computations on this data, and so on. Then, we can assign any data to variables, which we have access to in the `return` statement.

```jsx
class MyComponent extends React.Component {
	constructor(props) {
		super(props);
		this.state = {
			name: 'freeCodeCamp'
		}
	
	}
	
	render() {
		const name = this.state.name;
		return (
			<div>
				<h1> {name} </h1>
			</div>
		);
	}
};
```

--- 

