# Inline Style
To style those JSX elements our create in React, we can import styles from a stylesheet. You apply a class to your JSX element using the `className` attribute, and apply styles to the class in your stylesheet.

 Another option is to apply inline styles, which are very common in ReactJS development. We apply inline styles to JSX elements similar to how you do it in HTML, but with a few JSX differences. Here's an example of an inline style in HTML:

 ```jsx
<div style="color: yellow; font-size: 16px">Mellow Yellow</div>
```

JSX elements use the `style` attribute, but because of the way JSX is transpiled, you can't set the value to a `string`. Instead, you set it equal to a JavaScript `object`. Here's an example:

```jsx
<div style={{color: "yellow", fontSize: 16}}>Mellow Yellow</div>
```

Notice how we camelCase the `fontSize` property? This is because React will not accept kebab-case keys in the style object. React will apply the correct property name for us in the HTML.

```jsx
class Colorful extends React.Component {
	render() {
		return (
			<div style={{color: "red", fontSize: 72}}>Big Red</div>
		);
	}
};
```

Set the size of the font with `fontSize` instead of `font-size`. Hyphenated words like `font-size` are invalid syntax for JavaScript object properties, so React uses camel case. As a rule, any hyphenated style properties are written using camel case in JSX.

All property value length units (like `height`, `width`, and `fontSize`) are assumed to be in `px` unless otherwise specified. If we want to use `em`, for example, we wrap the value and the units in quotes, like `{fontSize: "4em"}`. Other than the length values that default to `px`, all other property values should be wrapped in quotes.

```jsx
let obj = {
color: "purple",
fontSize: 40,
border: "2px solid purple",
};

class Colorful extends React.Component {
	render() {	
		return (
			<div style={obj}>Style Me!</div>
		);
	}
};

```