# Define a [[10. Constructor Function|Constructor]] Function
Constructors are [[7. Function|functions]] that create new objects. They define properties and behaviors that will belong to the new object. Think of them as a blueprint for the creation of new objects.

Here is an example of a constructor:

```js
function Bird() {
  this.name = "Albert";
  this.color = "blue";
  this.numLegs = 2;
}
```

This constructor defines a `Bird` object with properties `name`, `color`, and `numLegs` set to Albert, blue, and 2, respectively. Constructors follow a few conventions:

-   Constructors are defined with a capitalized name to [[distinguish]] them from other [[7. Function|functions]] that are not `constructors`.
-   Constructors use the keyword `this` to set properties of the object they will create. Inside the constructor, `this` refers to the new object it will create.
-   Constructors define properties and behaviors instead of returning a value as other [[7. Function|functions]] might.

## Use a Constructor to Create Objects
```js
function Bird() {
  this.name = "Albert";
  this.color  = "blue";
  this.numLegs = 2;
}

let blueBird = new Bird();
```

**NOTE:** `this` inside the constructor always refers to the object being created.

Notice that the `new` operator is used when calling a constructor. This tells JavaScript to create a new instance of `Bird` called `blueBird`. Without the `new` operator, `this` inside the constructor would not point to the newly created object, giving unexpected results. Now `blueBird` has all the properties defined inside the `Bird` constructor:

## Extend Constructors to Receive Arguments
Suppose you were writing a program to keep track of hundreds or even thousands of different birds in an aviary. It would take a lot of time to create all the birds, then change the properties to different values for every one. To more easily create different `Bird`objects, you can design your Bird constructor to accept parameters:

```js
function Bird(name, color) {
  this.name = name;
  this.color = color;
  this.numLegs = 2;
}
```

Then pass in the values as arguments to define each unique bird into the `Bird`constructor: `let cardinal = new Bird("Bruce", "red");` This gives a new instance of `Bird` with `name` and `color` properties set to `Bruce` and `red`, respectively. The `numLegs` property is still set to 2. The `cardinal` has these properties:

```js
cardinal.name
cardinal.color
cardinal.numLegs
```

The constructor is more flexible. It's now possible to define the properties for each `Bird`at the time it is created, which is one way that JavaScript constructors are so useful. They group objects together based on shared characteristics and behavior and define a blueprint that automates their creation.

---

# Prototype Properties
This may not be an issue when there are only two instances, but imagine if there are millions of instances. That would be a lot of duplicated variables.

A better way is to use the `prototype` of `Bird`. Properties in the `prototype` are shared among ALL instances of `Bird`. Here's how to add `numLegs` to the `Bird prototype`:

```js
Bird.prototype.numLegs = 2;
```

Now all instances of `Bird` have the `numLegs` property.

```js
console.log(duck.numLegs);
console.log(canary.numLegs);
```

Since all instances automatically have the properties on the `prototype`, think of a `prototype` as a "recipe" for creating objects. Note that the `prototype` for `duck` and `canary` is part of the `Bird` constructor as `Bird.prototype`. Nearly every object in JavaScript has a `prototype` property which is part of the constructor function that created it.

---

# Change the Prototype to a New Object
This becomes tedious after more than a few properties.

```js
Bird.prototype.eat = function() {
  console.log("nom nom nom");
}

Bird.prototype.describe = function() {
  console.log("My name is " + this.name);
}
```

A more efficient way is to set the `prototype` to a new object that already contains the properties. This way, the properties are added all at once:

```js
Bird.prototype = {
  numLegs: 2, 
  eat: function() {
    console.log("nom nom nom");
  },
  describe: function() {
    console.log("My name is " + this.name);
  }
};
```

---

# Use Inheritance
There's a principle in programming called Don't Repeat Yourself (DRY). The reason repeated code is a problem is because any change requires fixing code in multiple places. This usually means more work for programmers and more room for errors.

Notice in the example below that the `describe` method is shared by `Bird` and `Dog`:

```js
Bird.prototype = {
  constructor: Bird,
  describe: function() {
    console.log("My name is " + this.name);
  }
};

Dog.prototype = {
  constructor: Dog,
  describe: function() {
    console.log("My name is " + this.name);
  }
};
```

The `describe` method is repeated in two places. The code can be edited to follow the DRY principle by creating a `supertype` (or parent) called `Animal`:

```js
function Animal() { };

Animal.prototype = {
  constructor: Animal, 
  describe: function() {
    console.log("My name is " + this.name);
  }
};
```

Since `Animal` includes the `describe` method, you can remove it from `Bird` and `Dog`:

```js
Bird.prototype = {
  constructor: Bird
};

Dog.prototype = {
  constructor: Dog
};
```

---

# Inherit Behaviors from a Supertype
To reuse the methods of `Animal` inside `Bird`and `Dog` without defining them again. It uses a technique called inheritance. This challenge covers the first step: make an instance of the `supertype` (or parent). You already know one way to create an instance of `Animal` using the `new` operator:

```js
let animal = new Animal();
```

There are some disadvantages when using this syntax for inheritance, which are too complex for the scope of this challenge. Instead, here's an alternative approach without those disadvantages:

```js
let animal = Object.create(Animal.prototype);
```

`Object.create(obj)` creates a new object, and sets `obj` as the new object's `prototype`. Recall that the `prototype` is like the "recipe" for creating an object. By setting the `prototype` of `animal` to be the `prototype` of `Animal`, you are effectively giving the `animal` instance the same "recipe" as any other instance of `Animal`.

---

# Set the Child's Prototype
set the `prototype` of the subtype (or child)—in this case, `Bird`—to be an instance of `Animal`.

```js
Bird.prototype = Object.create(Animal.prototype);

let duck = new Bird("Donald");
duck.eat();
```
Remember that the `prototype` is like the "recipe" for creating an object. In a way, the recipe for `Bird` now includes all the key "ingredients" from `Animal`.
`duck` inherits all of `Animal`'s properties, including the `eat` method.

---

# Reset an Inherited & Add Methods
When an object inherits its `prototype` from another object, it also inherits the supertype's constructor property. Here's an example:

```js
function Bird() { }
Bird.prototype = Object.create(Animal.prototype);
let duck = new Bird();
duck.constructor
```

But `duck` and all instances of `Bird` should show that they were constructed by `Bird`and not `Animal`. To do so, we can manually set the constructor property of `Bird` to the `Bird` object:

```js
Bird.prototype.constructor = Bird;
duck.constructor
```

## Add Methods 
A constructor function that inherits its `prototype` object from a supertype constructor function can still have its own methods in addition to inherited methods.

For example, `Bird` is a constructor that inherits its `prototype` from `Animal`:

```js
function Animal() { }
Animal.prototype.eat = function() {
  console.log("nom nom nom");
};
function Bird() { }
Bird.prototype = Object.create(Animal.prototype);
Bird.prototype.constructor = Bird;
```

In addition to what is inherited from `Animal`, you want to add behavior that is unique to `Bird` objects. Here, `Bird` will get a `fly()` function. Functions are added to `Bird's``prototype` the same way as any constructor function:

```js
Bird.prototype.fly = function() {
  console.log("I'm flying!");
};
```

Now instances of `Bird` will have both `eat()` and `fly()` methods:

```js
let duck = new Bird();
duck.eat();
duck.fly();
```

`duck.eat()` would display the string `nom nom nom` in the console, and `duck.fly()`would display the string `I'm flying!`.

## Override Inherited Methods
It's possible to override an inherited method. It's done the same way - by adding a method to `ChildObject.prototype` using the same method name as the one to override. Here;s an example of `Bird` overriding the `eat()` method inherited from `Animal`:

```js
function Animail(){ };
Animal.prototype.eat = function(){
	return "nom nom nom";
};
function Bird(){ };

Bird.prototype = Object.create(Animal.prototype);

Bird.prototype.eat = function() {
	return "peck peck peck";
}
```
If we have an instance `let duck = new Bird();` and we call `duck.eat()`, this is how JavaScript looks for method on the `prototype` chain of `duck`:

1. `duck` => is `eat()` defined here? => No.
2. `Bird` => is `eat()` defined here? => Yes. Execute it and stop searching.
3. `Animal` => `eat()` is defined, but JavaScript stopped searching before reaching this level. 

---
# Understand Prototype
### Inherit of Prototype
Just like people inherit genes from their parents, an object inherits its `prototype`directly from the constructor function that created it. For example, here the `Bird`constructor creates the `duck` object:

```js
function Bird(name) {
  this.name = name;
}

let duck = new Bird("Donald");
```

`duck` inherits its `prototype` from the `Bird` constructor function. You can show this relationship with the `isPrototypeOf` method:

```js
Bird.prototype.isPrototypeOf(duck);
```
This would return `true`.

## Prototype chain
All objects in javaScript have a `prototype`. Also, an object's prototype itself is an object.

```js
function Bird(name) {
  this.name = name;
}

typeof Bird.prototype;
```

Because a `prototype` is an object, a `prototype` can have its own `prototype`! In this case, the `prototype` of `Bird.prototype` is `Object.prototype`:

```js
Object.prototype.isPrototypeOf(Bird.prototype);
```

How is this useful? You may recall the `hasOwnProperty` method from a previous challenge:

```js
let duck = new Bird("Donald");
duck.hasOwnProperty("name");
```

The `hasOwnProperty` method is defined in `Object.prototype`, which can be accessed by `Bird.prototype`, which can then be accessed by `duck`. This is an example of the `prototype` chain. In this `prototype` chain, `Bird` is the `supertype` for `duck`, while `duck` is the `subtype`. `Object` is a `supertype` for both `Bird` and `duck`. `Object` is a `supertype` for all objects in JavaScript. Therefore, any object can use the `hasOwnProperty` method.

```js
function Dog(name) {
	this.name = name;
}
	let beagle = new Dog("Snoopy");
	Dog.prototype.isPrototypeOf(beagle); // yields true
	Object.prototype.isPrototypeOf(Dog.prototype); //yields true
```

---

